In the very cordial invitation extended to me by the distinguished President of your Bar Association to participate in the observance of this occasion it was urged that I should make a short address upon the relations of the  Federal and State Judiciary to each other.

As a reason for my taking this particular subject it was suggested by him that I had had the advantage of a considerable service under both  systems. Whatever else may come from such a fact I am sure that it has deeply confirmed the view that in the administration of two different systems of judicature,  exercising jurisdiction within the same territory but under different sovereignties, there are very many occasions demanding the exercise of the utmost comity of  each  court  for the other.
From 1776 to 1789, a period of thirteen years after our independence was declared, there was no system of United States courts, except a court for the trial of prize and piracy cases, and no United States judiciary. The union under the articles of confederation possessed no judicial powers and the tribunals of the states were relied upon for the enforcement of the laws of the union.
All human experiences  concur  in  teaching  that  no government
can be effective which has no judicial power, or which having such power   is  obliged  to  rely   upon  the  tribunals   of  another  sovereignty for the interpretation of its powers and the application of its laws.
Weak as was the union under the old articles in  consequence of
the want of  an executive head,   of  the power  of taxation  and of the 
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and between the states, its most marked weakness was in this dependence upon state tribunals  for the interpretation  and administration  of its laws.
The treaty which acknowledged our independence provided  that no obstacle should be interposed to the collection through the courts of debts due to British subjects. The state courts in many instances continued to enforce the provisions of state law forbidding  enforcement of such debts and we were threatened with all the consequences of a deliberate breach of this provision of our treaty  because there were no federal courts in which such claims might  be enforced and in which the stipulations of the treaty would have  been upheld  as the paramount law.
Nothing  but  the  stress  of  the  war   for  independence   held the
states together under the ineffective  government  of  the old constitution, and when that pressure was  removed  the  government  fell into great contempt and threatened utter collapse for want of vitality enough to preserve even the appearance of  authority.
There  was,  however,  a  widespread  feeling  that  our  safety  and
national existence depended upon our union and  that  an efficient and energetic central government was impossible unless wider  powers should be granted by the states.
This sentiment in favor of union  so far as we can now judge was
well nigh unanimous, though there were wide differences of opinion as to the extent of the powers which were necessary to enable the government of the union to energetically exercise those functions necessary to the general safety and common welfare.
This sentiment led to the assembling of a convention of delegates
representing twelve of the states of the then union for the purpose of proposing amendments  to the articles of confederation.
Rhode Island did not participate in this convention and can of all the original states claim no credit for any part in the forming of our constitution, and both Rhode Island and North Carolina were left out of the new  union by their failure to adopt and ratify the  constitution until after it had, by its own terms, become effective between the other eleven states who had adopted and ratified it,  each state acting for itself. But after the new government  had   been fully organized by the election and inauguration of its first president and congress  those  two  recalcitrant  states  adopted   the constitution, were admitted again into the union and the laws theretofore passed were extended to them.
A constitutional  compact  between  states greatly varying in 





population and wealth and having widely divergent interests was necessarily the result of many compromises of opinion and  interest.
When Washington transmitted  as  president  of  the  convention  a
draft of the instrument agreed upon he called attention to the  difficulties which had been surmounted only by mutual  concessions. That incomparable statesman said that the  constitution proposed "was the result of a spirit of amity and of  mutual deference and concession which the peculiarities of our political situation rendered indispensable.''	With reference to the sacrifices of power made by the states and essential to secure the  common welfare he added:-
, 'It is obviously impracticable in the federal government of these states to secure all rights of independent sovereignty to each, and yet provide for the interest and safety of all. Individuals entering into society, must give up a share of liberty to preserve the rest. The magnitude of the sacrifice must depend as well on situation and circumstance, as on the object to be obtained. It is at all times difficult to draw with precision the line between those rights which must be surrendered, and those which may be reserved; and on the present occasion this difficulty was increased by a difference among the several states as to their situation, extent, habits,  and particular  interests."
There was a wide and earnest opposition to the adoption of the constitution and in most of the states its ratification was secured only by very narrow majorities. The opposition came mainly from those leaders of opinion most deeply saturated with the advanced popular republican philosophy beginning then to find expression among the oppressed classes of Europe. It was believed by the opponents of the constitution that that government was best which governed least and that individual liberty had and would find its surest protection in the state governments. They believed that the powers conferred upon the union were unnecessary to the ends and purposes for which the union was  established  and  were  so sweeping as to endanger the existence of the states and thus  destroy the best security for personal liberty and popular  government.
This division of opinion continued after its adoption.
"We were,'' said John Marshall in his life of Washington, "divided into two great political parties, the one of which  contemplated America as a nation and labored incessantly to  invest the federal head with powers competent  to the   preservation of the union. The other attached itself to the state government, received all the powers of congress with jealousy,   and assented reluctantly to measures which would  enable the   head  to act in any respect independently of the members.''
One of the differences of opinion which  divided  our  fathers was
 

as to the wisdom or necessity of federal  tribunals.  Under  the articles of confederation the state tribunals had done the federal business and it was urged that the creation of a federal system of courts would create jealousies and opposition in the state tribunals with whose jurisdiction  there would  be  necessarily  much  interference.
The reply to this was very obvious and was most effectively made
both in the constituent convention and before the people. It was in substance, that all experience had proved  that  federal  tribunals were necessary to render the authority of the congress effectual and that the varying scope of the powers of the two systems of governments would often place the general and local policy at variance.
On this latter account so radical a friend of popular  government as John Randolph, of Virginia, urged that the courts of the states should not be intrusted with the administration of the national laws. By a great majority of delegate votes a considerable but definite judicial  power was conferred  upon  the  union  and  a  federal  judiciary provided  for.
Now the states did not intend to strip themselves of all judicial power, and you will see that the judicial powers thus delegated to the United States are carefully enumerated, and, when we come to scan them,  it cannot escape notice  that  the  great  mass  of   controversies which enter  deepest  into  our  social  life  are  wholly outside the scope of the judicial powers granted to the  United  States. Thus  the rights,  duties and  privileges   of  citizenship  (certain prohibited  discriminations  aside)   are  enforced through the reserved judicial  power of the states. The  controversies  which arise out of our manifold  domestic  relations,   or in  respect  to  the descent  and distribution  of  our  estates,  or  our contracts, and all of that great mass of regulations for the  protection  of  life, health, liberty  and property,  depend upon the  due  administration  of state law by state courts.
The judicial   powers  vested   in  the United States were carefully
defined.	These limited  powers  extend  to:  all  suits  arising under the constitution,  or  any law or  treaty  made  in  pursuance thereof; all cases of  admiralty  or  maritime  jurisdiction;   all suits to which the United  States shall be a party;  to controversies between  states, or between  a state  and  citizens  of  another  state;  to controversies between citizens of different states; and to some other controversies of  no  great  importance.	The  constitution   also  provided  that  it, and the laws and treaties made in pursuance  thereof, should be the
 

supreme law of the land, and that "the judges in  each  state shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or laws of any state to the  contrary  notwithstanding.''
The line of demarcation between  the  judicial  power granted and
that reserved by the states would seem to be plainly marked. But congress, though it might have done so, did not when it came to create courts and regulate their jurisdiction make the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States exclusive in respect to many controversies to  which  the  judicial power  of  the  United  States  is declared  to  extend  by the constitution.  Thus from the   original Judiciary Act of 1789 down to the present  instead of  giving to courts of the United States exclusive jurisdiction in all suits arising under the constitution and the laws of congress and  treaties made in pursuance thereof, congress has made their  jurisdiction concurrent with the state courts.
So suits between citizens of  different states may not only be carried on in state courts, but can not be brought in or removed to a United States court unless the  amount  involved  exceeds the sum of $2000.
Thus congress has not chosen to give to the federal courts nearly
so extensive a jurisdiction as it might do if it saw fit to confer the entire judicial power of the United States exclusively upon the courts of the United States. I do not complain of  congress about this. I think the congress is  right.  In respect of  controversies arising under the constitution or  laws  of the United States there is a remedy if the state court denies to the litigant any right, title or interest arising under the  constitution  or  laws  of  the union and set up or claimed, by a writ of error from the supreme court of the United States to the highest court of the state.
There have  been  occasional  clashes  of  jurisdiction  between the
two systems of courts arising out of controversies of which the jurisdiction is concurrent, but the general disposition of the judges of both classes of courts bas been to act cautiously in all such cases and  with  the  utmost  respect  for  each  other, following  the  well settled rule  which  leaves  the  settlement  of  all such cases to that court which first acquired  jurisdiction.
The courts of  the  union  and  the  courts of  the states  have alike
from an early day assumed jurisdiction, when two laws relating to the same subject have conflicted with each other, to decide which of the  two was the paramount law and to apply that law to the  settlement of the case. Thus, if the constitution  of  a state forbids  a
 

law of a certain kind and the legislature in defiance of this  constitutional restriction should pass the forbidden  law, the  state courts when called upon to enforce the law would find  themselves confronted with the  question as to whether they   would enforce the organic law of the constitution, or the  legislative mandate which violated that organic law.
So if the constitution of the United States and the laws and treaties made in pursuance  thereof are in fact the supreme law of the land, as is declared by the constitution, any law passed by congress and any law passed by any  state  must  be  ineffective as law, and the courts  of  the  United  States  from  an  early day have not hesitated, when called upon  to  give  effect  to such law of congress or of any state,  to  say  that  the  law being repugnant to the supreme law was no law at all  but  a mere nullity. The exercise of this power of nullifying state laws has been the occasion of much resentment particularly in the early decades of our history, and the federal courts have been sharply criticised for the assertion of the jurisdiction and in particular cases for alleged mistakes in the application of the constitution.
Frequently very nice questions of interpretation have arisen.	A
law was valid under one construction of the constitution while under another quite plausible interpretation it was  void.  If the law was one of a political character, a law which one of the great parties had proposed and carried over criticism as to the power of congress in the matter, the validity or invalidity of the law often turned upon whether a very rigid or a very liberal interpretation should be given to the constitutional provision supposed to confer power to pass the law.
But  still  higher  problems  were  often  involved  in controversies
which brought into question the scope o the powers granted to the federal  government.	The  constitution  was the work of human intelligence.	The  great powers granted were conferred  in broad terms, and could not but include some words and phrases of  ambiguous meaning.	The problem of the reconciliation of the supremacy of  the  nation, in respect  of  the great power   delegated  to it, with the  sovereignty of  the  states-in  respect  to  those powers of government which had been reserved and which  most nearly touch the every· day life of the people and most  concern  their  welfare and happiness, had to be worked out.	The  dual government thus instituted was most complex and involved a divided allegiance.  The line  of  demarcation  between  the   powers  delegated  and  those
 

reserved was not always very  distinguishable.	Step by  step  the dark  places  had to  be  illuminated  and the debatable questions cleared up.	To the courts of  the  union,  as the  interpreters  and administrators of that constitution as the supreme law of the land, was committed the final decision of  all such controversies and the final marking of the line between  the  powers-of  the nation and those of the states.	The function thus exercised was delicate and yet vital to the endurance  and supremacy of  the union.	Its fearless  discharge  has  kept the  federal  courts  constantly   upon the firing line and has resulted at times in much intemperate  criticism.
One of the  most  flagrant  cases  of  conflict  between  the federal and state systems had its origin in the very  firm  antagonism  to slavery which manifested itself shortly before  our  civil  war.  A prisoner convicted by the federal  court for the  District  of  Wisconsin for a violation of the provisions  of  the fugitive slave law was taken by a writ of habeas corpus issued by the supreme court of Wisconsin   from  the  custody  of  a  United   States  marshal,   and  discharged upon an opinion  by  that  court  holding  the  fugitive   slave law  void,  and  directing  its  clerk  to  recognize  no  writ  of  error from the supreme court of the United  States.  When this judgment was reversed by  the  unanimous  judgment  of  all  the   justices  of  the supreme  court  of  the  United  States 1  and  the  sentence  executed, the  legislature  of  Wisconsin   passed   a   resolution    charging   the supreme court  with  usurpation   and  declaring  that   the   remedy  was open  defiance.
Neither have our brethren of the state judiciary escaped the discharge of a like duty in respect of the interpretation and  enforcement of their respective state constitutions.   Indeed,  this function of declaring a legislative enactment void which  conflicted with the organic legislation of a state constitution, was   first assumed by state courts and there were many precedents in  state decisions for the opinion of the supreme court of the United States in Marbury v. Madison.  Neither have they escaped the  hot shot of legislative and popular criticism for daring to declare void the enactments of state legislatures. During the evolution of  the established constitutional principle concerning the  supremacy of a constitution over an ordinary act of legislation the  state judiciary  bore the brunt of the battle.   In Rhode Island and in Ohio the judges of the supreme
 

court were impeached, though a conviction was not secured, for daring to declare a law void for repugnancy to the constitution.
To this purely American  principal  of constitutional law  we owe
the whole body  of  that majestic   law known  as the "Law of  Constitutional Limitations'' of which your own and  great  lamented Judge Cooley was the most distinguished   expounder   who has  yet arisen in this country.   But I must even go further  and repeat what I have said  when  touching  upon  the  same subject in former addresses, that to this assumption by  the  courts, state and national, of the power to compel obedience to the constitution as the highest and supreme expression of the popular  will, by declaring void every act, either of the legislative or  executive  departments  of  government, we owe the perpetuity  and vitality of free, representative, limited, constitutional  government.
I have referred to the necessity for the exercise of comity between
the courts of the United States and those of the state.  This arises, as we have seen, principally from the fact that in respect to quite extensive classes of litigations, their  jurisdiction  is concurrent. These courts, as has been many times decided, are foreign as to each other.
They  are courts  created  by wholly  different  sovereignties,  and
neither holds any superiority over the other, except in the rare case of a writ of error from the supreme court of the United  States to the supreme court of a state to review its decision  in  respect only to a claim set up on the  record  to some  right, title, claim or interest arising under and dependent upon the constitution, or some law, or treaty made in pursuance thereof,  when  such right has been denied. 'With the single exception I have named, an  exception due to the fact that congress has never made the jurisdiction  of  its courts exclusive in controversies arising under  the federal constitution or laws, the two systems of courts are absolutely independent  of  each other, and the rules of  jurisprudence and comity applicable between courts of different  countries apply to them.
It is the highest duty of both courts to so administer the rules of
procedure as shall best enable them to co-operate as two systems coexisting  within   the  same  territory,   and   alike   submitting  to  the supreme authority of the constitution of the United States.
In Taylor v. Carryl  Mr. Justice Campbell, after stating strongly the duty of harmonious  co-operation, said:-
 

''The decisions of this court that declare such an aim, and that embody the principles and modes of administration to accomplish it, have gone from the court with authority, and have returned to it, bringing the vigor and strength that is always imparted to magistrates of whatever class by the approbation and confidence of those submitted to their government.''
The general principle which should govern the procedure of courts of  concurrent  but  independent  jurisdiction,  was  thus  stated  by the United  States Circuit Court of Appeals for this circuit: -
"It is a rule of almost universal  application that, between courts of the same sovereignty and concurrent jurisdiction, the court which first acquires jurisdiction of the controversy or of the res should be suffered by  every other court to decide every question within the sphere of the pending cause, and to continue in the possession of the subject-matter of the controversy until every question before it shall be  decided  and  the  res  discharged from its control. This rule has its foundation, perhaps in comity; but the fruits of its recognition have been so beneficial, when applied to courts of  concurrent jurisdiction  created by  different sovereignties,  as  to justify   the conclusion that it is not only a rule of comity, but one of necessity.      The cases are numerous which recognize its binding force and illustrate its wide application."
Problems and difficulties always have, and always will, beset the path of every self-governing people. From the beginning, the question as to how to reconcile individual liberty with the restraints of law essential to the common safety and general welfare, has  demanded solution.   To these old and never answered  questions, we have added the further problem of how to reconcile  the sovereignty of the nation with the sovereignty of  the  state.      It was not to be expected that the complex machinery devised by  our fathers to this end should work with absolute smoothness when  first set in motion. The natural  capacity of the American people  for self-government, co-operating with the shaping which comes with the slow process of time and the lesson of experience, has  largely solved the difficulties which from time to time have  presented themselves. The complex systems of federal and state  governments, and federal and state judicial systems, exercising their power over the same people, and within the same territory, have been made to work in wonderful harmony, and the genius of  our people for self-government is day by day splendidly  vindicating itself.
I have referred briefly  to the great constitutional functions   discharged by both judicial systems, and to the   semi-governmental questions involved in the exercise of the jurisdiction of both federal and state tribunals as defenders and   upholders of constitutional limitations. There is a wider  jurisdiction  exercised by both state
2
 
178             MICHIGAN  LAW  REVIEW

and federal  courts,  which concerns only the administration  of  justice in the  innumerable  controversies  which  arise  continually between man and man. In the discharge of this high and sacred duty, the judges of the  federal  and  state  courts  are  alike  set  apart for the exercise of the  most exalted  functions  which man may assume over his fellow-men. The cleanness and  uprightness with which we discharge  this  great  and  solemn  duty  of judgment is of the utmost concern to the welfare of all the people,  and to the perpetuity of free institutions.
Judicial probity is the absolute essential to the very existence of
an ordered social life, and the keystone of the arch of our common safety. When public confidence  in  the integrity of  the judges of the land shall be shattered, the doom of government by law is sounded.    I cannot fail to testify to the general confidence and affection of the people submitted to their jurisdiction for the magistracy of the states.
When I witness  daily the integrity  and devotion to duty with
which my brethren of the state courts administer the state justice, and the general loyalty with which they  are  upheld,  notwithstanding their short elective terms, my faith in the capacity of the people is strengthened, and my confidence in the   endurance  of  popular government invigorated.    The spectacle of this public regard which is exhibited for them, has at moments  occasioned a sense of isolation and envy that the judges of the  federal  courts  could not,  by reason of  the character of their  duties, draw  nearer  to  the people and share more in their  confidence and affection.    A  more secure tenure, and slightly  better compensation, are not a full compensation for the greater esteem in which the state judges are held, and the only reflection  which reconciles us to the situation, is in the greater opportunities   which the  service  of  the  great  republic  affords for the discharge  of great duties; and of these none are so full of reward as that which  comes from an earnest effort to present the courts of the union as  also the courts of the people, in as full  a sense  as those of the state, with which they are more familiar.
In conclusion let me say that whatever be the constitutional relations of the two systems of courts to each other, the relation of the judiciary  to  each other is that of brethren   co-operating in  the   administration of justice and priests serving around a common  altar.

