PROPOSALS for “reform” of government regulation tend to fall into four categories. Some recommend changes in agency structure, such as replacing a multimember commission with a single head.1 Others recommend improvements in agency procedures.2 Still others seek to improve the quality of appointments.3 A final group of proposals recommends changes in the substance of regulation itself, for example, deregulating airlines4 *550 or taxing natural gas producers instead of regulating them.5 Proposals of the first three sorts are often inadequate or incapable by themselves of producing significant change in the effect of the regulation on the regulated enterprises. Proposals of the last sort--calling for major shifts in the substance of regulation--can result in significant changes. But those proposals are difficult to formulate because of the detailed knowledge they require about the regulated industries and the actual effect of a particular regulatory system upon them.   This Article concerns proposals of the fourth sort. It seeks to help formulate and advance substantive proposals for change by providing a framework for analyzing economic regulation. The framework is designed to isolate existing regulatory areas that are particularly likely to need reform. It also seeks to aid legislators and administrators deciding whether they should design new regulatory programs or rely instead upon alternatives to traditional systems of regulation.   The framework is built upon a simple axiom for creating and implementing any program: determine one’s objectives, examine the alternative methods of obtaining those objectives, and choose the best method for doing so. In regulatory matters, several factors cause this axiom to be honored only in the breach. First, although the defects of the free market are widely recognized, there is no well-known systematic account of typical problems that accompany classical forms of regulation.6 Nor are the potential alternatives to classical regulation, such as taxation, typically explored in any detail.7 Too many arguments made in favor of government regulation assume that regulation, at least in principle, is a perfect solution to any perceived problem with the unregulated marketplace.8 But regulation embodies its own typical defects. One of this Article’s objectives is to present these *551 defects systematically, so that legislators, administrators, and others will find it easier to match regulatory goals with regulatory systems.   Second, the success or failure of individual regulatory programs seems to depend upon so many factors--historical, political, administrative, economic--that any analysis not taking all these factors into account seems incomplete, while one that does so makes each program seem unique, defying analysis or evaluation in the light of experience gained through regulation elsewhere. Thus policymakers find it difficult to learn from experience in other areas. This Article suggests, however, that not every factor need be considered from the outset. Rather, one should analyze the comparative merits of alternative methods in terms of the justifications underlying the choice of a regulatory program and then introduce historical, political, procedural, or administrative considerations to see if, and how, they change one’s judgment about the best method. Very often they will not.   The basic purpose of this Article is to lay out a skeletal framework for analysis of economic regulation. It is left to a subsequent work9 to explore the fine details of the framework. The framework consists of three basic parts. First, the market defects that typically give rise to a call for regulation will be described. Then, several different modes of classical regulation, along with the major problems that typically accompany each of them, will be discussed. Finally, certain alternative regimes that may sometimes be employed with greater success than classical regulation will be listed.   The second part of the Article will illustrate the framework, and explore some of its details and implications, by applying it to several regulatory programs. Each of these brief “case studies” will point to some general conclusions regarding the matching, or mismatching, of regulatory objectives and regulatory means. But the framework and the general rules which flow from it serve only to identify certain “candidates” for regulatory reform. Before a final decision can be reached on any specific regulatory program, it is necessary to explore in detail all the benefits and harms of, and justifications for, regulation or deregulation. The process by which reform can occur is a political process, and the third Part of this Article will briefly describe how one might proceed with a “candidate” to determine what sort of reform is desirable and how to achieve it.   *552 I. THE FRAMEWORK FOR ANALYSIS OF ECONOMIC REGULATION The framework for analysis suggested in this Article assumes that an unregulated marketplace is the norm and that those who advocate government intervention must justify it by showing that it is needed to achieve an important public objective that an unregulated marketplace cannot provide. This assumption, and the traditional “market failure” analysis that it suggests, are sometimes justified by appealing to basic societal values such as freedom of individual action and minimization of governmental coercion. The justification for the assumption here, however, lies in its ability to generate demonstrably desirable results by identifying regulatory problems, predicting regulatory failures, and suggesting alternatives. Because the assumption that an un-regulated marketplace is the norm does not rest on the adoption of a particular set of values, the analysis should point to conclusions and proposals which would be accepted by persons holding a broad range of political values and beliefs.   Of course, the intrinsic advantages offered by a well-functioning competitive marketplace also help to support a presumption in favor of a free market system. These advantages have traditionally been identified as the market’s tendency to minimize economic waste by allowing for continuous individual balancing of economic costs and benefits by consumers and producers, the “carrot and stick” incentive the market provides for greater production efficiency, and the incentives it provides for innovation and the channeling of these innovations into socially desired directions.10   In achieving these ends, competitive markets reduce the need for the central collection of information.11 Their price signals allow producers and consumers to adapt quickly to change. And the impersonality of the decisionmaking process in competitive markets prevents those injured in the process (because, for example, their goods are no longer in demand) from obstructing change.12 To these advantages may be added a competitive market’s tendency to decentralize power and to make decisions that are “fair” in the sense of being impersonal.13 Finally, as Charles Schultze has noted, “relationships in the market are a *553 form of unanimous consent arrangement … [minimizing] the need for coercion as a means of organizing society.”14   The normative approach to regulation that this Article adopts obviously differs markedly from the analyses of those who argue that as a matter of historical fact, or present political reality, regulation is, or was, designed to further private interests of special groups.15 The framework used here focuses not on causes of, but on justifications for, regulation. It assumes, for the reasons mentioned above, that regulation is justified only if it achieves without too great a corresponding cost policy objectives that a consensus of reasonable observers would consider to be in the public interest. Even if the creation (or administration) of existing programs is best explained by the political power of special groups seeking selfish ends--which at least in some cases is doubtful16--those who seek to justify those programs must appeal to the “public interest.” Legislators, administrators, judges, critics, reformers, and the public at large wish to know whether regulatory programs are justified. Thus the approach taken here is useful as a guide to implementation and reform, regardless of the validity of other explanations of the derivation of regulation.   This framework applies to economic regulation broadly conceived as governmental efforts to control or to affect firms’ decisions about price, output, product quality, or production processes. Such regulation includes both traditional rate and entry regulation and more recent efforts to regulate health, safety, and the environment.   A. Typical Justifications for Regulation The most important justifications for government regulation of the economy are well described as instances of classical market failure.17 Most of the market defects that give rise to a demand for regulation can be classified as follows:   1. Control of Monopoly Power.--A traditional, persistent rationale for price and profit regulation is based on the need to control the exercise of power by a “natural monopolist.”18 Where *554 economies of scale are so great as to make it inefficient for more than one firm to supply a product, that firm, if not regulated, would increase its profits by restricting output and charging higher than competitive prices if free to do so. In part, such regulation is aimed at allocative efficiency.19 To the extent that the prices of a large range of products are set at a “competitive” level,20 they accurately reflect comparative costs in terms of real resources used. If monopolistically high prices are set, however, consumers will tend to substitute for the monopolist’s product a second product which, in terms of real resources, may cost the economy more to produce. Whether this allocative goal can be achieved through regulation of the prices charged is debatable. The fact that the regulated price is set high enough to cover the natural monopolist’s fixed costs automatically makes it higher than the incremental cost price that would produce allocative efficiency.21 Moreover, some would argue that in the absence of regulation, natural monopolists would set prices that, by discriminating in price among customers, are allocatively more efficient.22 Nonetheless, as long as one believes that, without regulation, the firm will raise prices substantially, one can reasonably argue that regulated prices will help achieve allocative efficiency. Moreover, the rationale for regulation here rests not only upon a desire for allocative efficiency, but also upon other justifications, such as the need to secure a fairer income distribution and distrust of the social and political (as well as the economic) power of the unregulated natural monopolist.   2. Rent Control.--Sudden increases in price may allow those who hold interests in a commodity to earn a windfall profit, one kind of economic “rent.” For example, those who owned large stocks of oil earned huge rents when the Arabs raised the price of new oil; owners of old natural gas earned rents when the costs *555 of finding new natural gas rose;23 and those who own existing housing earn rents as long as construction costs rise faster than other costs. Rents exist throughout the economy, in competitive and noncompetitive industries alike. Any firm that finds a more efficient production process, that finds an unusually cheap supply source, that luckily buys machines when they are cheap, or that has unusually effective managers-- but which cannot expand to satisfy all industry demand--will earn a rent. Ordinarily rents are not regulated, but when rents are great in amount and do not reflect any particular talent or skill on the part of producers, there is sometimes a demand for regulation.24 The object of the regulation is to transfer these “undeserved windfall profits” from producers or owners of the scarce resources to consumers or taxpayers.   3. Correcting for Spillovers.--Regulation is frequently justified as needed to compensate for the fact that the price of a product does not reflect certain major costs that its production and use impose upon the economy.25 The price of steel does not reflect the spillover or external costs that it imposes in the form of air pollution that harms or irritates those who live near the plant. As a result, more steel may be demanded than is warranted in light of its adverse side effects.   Of course, pollution’s harm results from a combination of the steel company’s production process, and living near the plant. And although the cost of pollution is not reflected in the first of these, it may be adequately reflected in the second, for those who move near the factory know that coughing is the price they must pay.26 Regulation must therefore rest on a judgment that some extra production cost, e.g. the cost of clean air scrubbers, is warranted by the resulting reduction of pollution harm. This judgment reflects the belief that steel users and pollution sufferers would agree to pay for pollution reduction if they could readily bargain among themselves. Regulation in the presence of spill-over costs can be seen as a way of correcting for the fact that bargaining among affected parties is difficult.27   *556 4. Correcting for Inadequate Information.--For competitive markets to function well consumers must have information sufficient to evaluate competing products. This information is itself a commodity, the supply of which will reflect costs and demand. Government regulation is sometimes designed to correct for inadequate consumer information or to lower the costs to the consumer of obtaining adequate information.28   In particular, government action may be called for when suppliers seek to mislead customers deliberately, and consumer use of current remedies is expensive or impractical; when consumers cannot readily evaluate the information available, such as the comparative abilities of doctors or lawyers or the potential effectiveness of a drug;29 or when the market on the supply side is insufficiently competitive to supply all the information demanded. In these instances the government may seek to provide or require more or better information or, through substantive regulation, make up for its lack.   5. Excessive Competition.--A commonly advanced justification for the regulation of airlines, trucks, and ships is the need to control “excessive competition.”30 In fact, this notion refers to several different sorts of justification, all of which assume that if prices fall too low, firms will go out of business, and products will end up being too costly. This particular set of justifications is an “empty box,” because no existing regulatory program can be justified by reference to it. Analysis of the different problems to which this rationale for regulation refers makes it clear how empty the box is.   This rationale may refer to an historical problem. For example, when airlines originally received large government subsidies (from the 1920’s through the 1950’s), they had an incentive to cut prices well below costs to increase their size, while making up the additional losses through additional subsidy.31 Though the problem was caused by government intervention (through subsidization), it required additional intervention to counteract it.32 Similarly, minimum price regulation of trucking was historically responsive to claims by the railroads that it *557 was “unfair” to regulate them while leaving unregulated truckers free to compete for the railroads’ most lucrative business.33   The rationale may refer to problems faced by an industry with large fixed costs and cyclical demand.34 The firms in the industry, pricing at incremental cost in the downswing, may find they have insufficient revenue to maintain full capacity. To reduce capacity during slack periods is inefficient, for it is more expensive to increase it during the next upswing than to maintain it continuously. This rationale is used most often to justify “depression cartels”35 in Europe and in Japan.   The rationale might refer to the possibility of “predatory” pricing--a dominant firm’s setting prices below variable costs in order to drive its rivals out of business, then raising its prices, and recouping lost profits before new firms, attracted by the higher prices, can enter the industry.36 There is little evidence, however, that this problem exists in any of the highly regulated industries. Where predatory pricing might exist, it can be dealt with through application of the antitrust laws.37   In a related vein, the excessive competition rationale may be an argument against allowing new firms to enter a “natural monopoly” industry, where the existence of more than one firm would lead to higher costs per unit of output. But if the industry is truly a natural monopoly, thus presenting economies of scale and high barriers to entry, it is not clear why or how another firm would enter the market.38   6. Moral Hazard.--The term “moral hazard” is used to describe a situation in which someone other than a buyer pays for the buyer’s purchases. The buyer feels no pocketbook constraint, and will purchase a good oblivious to the resource costs he imposes upon the economy.39 When ethical or other institutional constraints or direct supervision by the payer fail to control purchases, government regulation may be demanded.   *558 The most obvious current example is escalating medical costs.40 As medical care is purchased to an ever greater extent by the government or by large private insurers (with virtually no constraint on the amount demanded by the individual user), medical costs have accounted for an ever greater proportion of the national product.41 The fact that purchases are paid for by others frees the individual from the need to consider that using more medical care means less production of other goods; thus he may “unnecessarily” or “excessively” use medical resources. If one believed that too much of the GNP is accounted for by medical treatment and also believed that the problem of “moral hazard” prevents higher prices from acting as a check on individual demand for those resources, which in turn reduces the incentive to hold down prices, one might advocate regulation to keep prices down, improve efficiency, or limit the supply of medical treatment.42   7. Rationalization.--Occasionally government intervention is justified on the ground that, without it, firms in an industry would remain too small, or would lack sufficient organization, to produce their product efficiently.43 One would ordinarily expect such firms to grow or cooperate, and unit costs to decrease.44 But often social or political factors act to counteract this tendency.45 In such circumstances, agencies have sought to engage in industrywide “planning.” In the 1960’s, for example, the Federal Power Commission argued that increased coordination in the planning and operation of electric power generation and transmission facilities would significantly lower unit costs.46 The Commission felt that environmental, political, regulatory, and managerial problems made it difficult for firms to plan jointly. The result was a relatively unsuccessful federal agency effort to encourage industrywide rationalization.47   8. Minor Justifications.--Several additional justifications have on occasion been advanced for government regulation. While *559 not in themselves persuasive, these justifications often provide partial support for regulatory action.   (a) Unequal Bargaining Power.--The assumption that the “best” or most efficient allocation is achieved by free market forces rests in part upon an assumption that there is a “proper” allocation of bargaining power among the parties affected. Where the existing division of such bargaining power is “unequal” in this sense, it may be thought that regulation is justified in order to achieve a better balance. It is sometimes argued, for instance, that the “unequal baragaining power” of small sellers requires special legislative protection.48 While in principle one might regulate the “monopoly buyer” in order to protect these sellers, the more usual congressional response is to grant an exemption from the antitrust laws, thus allowing the sellers to organize in order to deal more effectively with the buyer. This rationale underlies the exemption granted not only to labor, but also to agricultural and fishing cooperatives.49   (b) Scarcity.--Regulation is sometimes justified in terms of scarcity.50 Regulation (on the) basis of this justification reflects a deliberate decision to abandon the market and use regulatory allocation to achieve a set of (often unspecified) “public interest” objectives,51 such as in the case of licensing television stations. Sometimes regulatory allocation is undertaken because of sudden supply failures which would work too serious a hardship on many users who could not afford the resulting dramatic price increases, as in the case of the Arab oil boycott. It must be remembered, however, that the “shortage” may be the result of the workings of an ongoing regulatory program, as when natural gas must be allocated because of rent control or an agency awards licenses to enter an industry.   (c) Paternalism.--Although in some cases the full and adequate information needed to reach a rational decision may be available to the decisionmaker in the marketplace, some may argue that he will nevertheless make the wrong decision and therefore government regulation is needed. This justification is one of pure paternalism: the government knows better than the individual what he wants or what is good for him. The distrust of the ability of the purchaser may be based on the inability of the lay person to evaluate the information, as in the case of *560 purchasing professional services, or the belief that, although the information could be accurately evaluated by the lay person, irrational human tendencies prevent this. The latter may be the case where small probabilities are involved, such as small risks of injury, or where matters of life and death are implicated, such as when those suffering from cancer will purchase a drug even though all reasonably reliable information indicates that it is worthless or even harmful. Whether the brand of paternalism based on mistrust of the rationality of the consumer is consistent with notions of freedom of choice which underlie the free market assumption is questionable. But it seems to play an important role in some government decisions.   Many existing regulatory programs rest upon not one but several different rationales. Thus, for example, one might favor regulation of workplace safety for several reasons. One might recognize that employers and employees can bargain for improved workplace safety (greater safety expenditures), but argue that accidents impose costs on others who are not represented at the bargaining table; thus bargaining alone will produce inadequate expenditure upon safety devices. This is a spillover rationale. Or one might believe that the worker does not know enough about the risks or consequences of accidents so he will not insist upon added safety expenditures. This is to argue that there is an informational defect in the market. Or, one might feel the worker is too poor or too weak to bargain for the safety he needs--that he has unequal bargaining power. Finally, one might claim that workers (indeed, all persons) are simply incapable of understanding their likely future feelings about accidents that hurt them. They inevitably underestimate the risk. If regulation is an effort to give them what they “really” want (contrary to their expressed views), a paternalistic rationale is at work. The importance of distinguishing rationales lies in the extent to which doing so suggests different remedies. Thus, one who believes the primary problem is informational will tend to favor government efforts to provide more information, not classical regulation. Although one who accepts a paternalistic rationale may disagree with one who believes the problem is informational, the clear statement of their points of difference can lead to empirical work that will lead them toward agreement upon the basic rationale and thus help choose the regulatory weapon best suited to the problems at hand.   B. The Regulatory Weapon Almost all regulatory activities can be grouped into seven types or “forms”: (1) cost-of-service ratemaking, (2) historically *561 based price setting, (3) allocation in accordance with a public interest standard, (4) historically based allocation, (5) standard setting, (6) individualized screening, (7) disclosure requirements. Any one regulatory program may involve several of these activities. Regulators soon discover that each of these forms is usually accompanied by certain typical problems which often cannot be resolved successfully and should be recognized in advance as vices characteristic of that particular regulatory regime.   Each individual regulatory form is applied in widely divergent substantive contexts. Public interest allocation, for example, describes the allocation of broadcasting licenses, airline routes, liquor licenses, and certain scarce natural resources. Why is it possible to group programs of economic regulation into forms which are characterized by certain features and attendant problems? In principle, one might expect nearly as many forms of regulation as there are substantive areas being regulated. But in practice such variation is drastically limited, in part because all regulatory programs are subject to certain institutional constraints. First, the relation between the regulator and affected industries is often adversary, for the regulator is to lead the industry to perform in a manner different from that dictated by the unregulated market. Second, the regulator is itself an institutional bureaucracy. Those working within it are administators or civil servants who act in accordance with internal rules and guidelines that can be understood with relative ease.   Third, despite the talk of sudden growth,52 regulation has emerged gradually over many years, and new programs copy old ones. Thus, the framers of the Civil Aeronautics Act (1938),53 precursor of today’s Federal Aviation Act,54 copied the language of the Interstate Commerce Act (1887),55 which was in turn modeled on the British Railroad Act (1845).56   Fourth, decisions are made subject to the requirements of administrative law, chiefly codified in the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).57 At a minimum, agencies may make decisions only after giving advance notice and allowing affected *562 parties to present arguments and evidence for and against the proposed positions. The agency must provide reasons for its action and publicly present evidence in support of its final decision, which must withstand court review to determine both whether the decision can be “objectively” supported as rational and whether it has been reached through “fair” procedures. To an ever greater extent, important agency decisionmaking follows the format provided by the APA for either notice-and-comment rulemaking or formal adjudication.   1. Cost-of-Service Ratemaking.--Whenever a regulator is asked to set industry prices, he is more likely than not to use cost-of-service ratemaking, whether the justification be control of monopoly power, rent control, or excessive competition. This system has been most often used to set rates for public utilities, such as electricity producers.58 But agencies have also sought to use it to set rates for airlines, natural gas producers, and other industries as well.59   The system consists of an administrative effort to determine the costs of a firm, including the cost of capital, and then allow the firm to set prices sufficient only to cover those costs. The regulator chooses a test year, adds that year’s operating costs, depreciation, and taxes, and adds to that sum a reasonable profit (determined by multiplying a reasonable rate of return times the “rate base,” i.e. investment, which is determined by taking historical investment and subtracting prior depreciation), thus giving the firm’s “revenue requirement.” Prices are then set to yield revenues that equal this revenue requirement. If the firm provides several classes of service, the regulator also determines a “rate structure”--the price to be charged for each different service or to each class of customer.   Cost-of-service ratemaking is often used where the object of regulation is to replicate those prices that would exist in well-functioning competitive markets. But certain inherent defects in the cost-of-service ratemaking system make this objective impossible to achieve.   First, regulators determine the investment upon which the firm is allowed to charge a profit on the basis of historical cost--the actual dollars invested. In a competitive market, however, returns would depend upon reproduction cost. If, in a competitive market, technology lowers reproduction costs, shareholders in older competing firms will receive lower profits; if costs for newer competitors rise, those with older equipment will (temporarily) earn more. Because of the administrative impossibility of measuring *563 reproduction costs, however, regulators are constrained to use historical costs.60   Second, there is no correct method for determining the “just and reasonable” rate of return. The two methods typically used-- the comparable earnings method and the discounted cash flow method61--provide only a very rough approximation of the amount one would have to pay shareholders to put up capital were the industry in a competitive, rather than a regulated, environment.62   Third, insofar as cost-of-service ratemaking manages to hold prices down to “cost,” it provides little incentive for efficiency.63 A variety of ad hoc measures, such as “bonus points” in allowable rates of return,64 are used as substitutes for the carrot and stick of increased profit and loss of business that a competitive market provides. Yet it is often extremely difficult to determine whether increased profits are the result of greater efficiency, changing market conditions, or market defects producing monopoly profits. The more the agency attempts to supervise the firm’s production processes directly, the more it simply replicates within itself the staff of the regulated firm.   Fourth, commissions find it difficult to adjust rates to reflect likely changes in cost or demand. Rate setting is tied to an historical test year, and probable changes in future costs due to inflation, for example, are often regarded as too “speculative” to warrant price increases.65 Similarly, commissioners are aware *564 that changes in price will affect demand and thereby affect revenues. Yet they often do not take account of probable demand changes. It is often impossible to make reasonably accurate estimates of demand elasticity, since consumers adapt gradually and differently to price changes over time. Commissions therefore find it particularly difficult to choose among the competing “expert models” of demand elasticity presented by adversary parties.66   Finally, it is difficult for regulators to determine a proper rate structure, for there is virtually no way to determine what proportion of fixed costs or joint costs each class of customer should bear. It can be argued that, for reasons of efficiency, a commission should distribute fixed costs among classes of customers in inverse proportion to their elasticity of demand, letting those whom a higher price is most likely to dissuade from using the service pay the least. But this formula runs into the practical problems surrounding the making of estimates of demand elasticity.67 Similarly, the allocation of joint costs in a competitive market is determined primarily by comparative demand for the final product. The butcher charges less per pound for chicken necks than breasts not because growing a neck requires less grain per pound, but because people want necks less. Thus, allocating joint costs in regulated markets is plagued by the uncertainty surrounding comparative demand. This problem is aggravated when different regulatory bodies (state and federal, in the case of the telephone company) have jurisdiction over different end services, some of the costs of which are joint. Divisions of cost then tend to reflect political, or other economically arbitrary factors. Finally, commissions are unlikely to experiment with different price systems and develop complex rate-setting formulas allowing for more efficient use of existing plants (such as offpeak pricing plans that would charge lower prices when capacity is not being used).68   *565 In a nutshell, the need for rules that are administratively practical and the difficulty of making economic predictions about changes in demand and costs (particularly about the effect of price changes on demand) make it impossible for the regulator to replicate the price and output results of a hypothetically competitive world. Under a competitive regime, prices adjust fairly rapidly, investors may earn rents or suffer windfall profits, prices are based on present cost, changes in demand resulting from changes in price will be taken into account as they occur, and firms experiment with different rate structures. With cost-of-service ratemaking, prices remain stable for fixed periods of time, the prices set may not yield the expected revenue because of demand changes, prices do not change to reflect changes in efficiency or market conditions, and firms will find it difficult to experiment with different price structures.   Two conclusions can be drawn from this discussion. First, attempts to obtain economic precision in the regulatory process are unlikely to be worth the effort expended. Second, insofar as one advocates price regulation (or cost-of-service ratemaking) as a “cure” for market failure, one must believe the market is working very badly before advocating regulation as a cure. Given the inability of regulation to reproduce the competitive market’s price signals, only severe market failure would make the regulatory game worth the candle.   2. Historically Based Price Regulation--When the government seeks to control the prices of large numbers of firms with disparate costs, as is true of economywide price controls, the only practical method is an historically based system.69 Each firm is allowed to charge the price it charged on a particular historical date plus, for example, “additional costs,” or, “eight percent extra per year.” The system works in the short run because historical price is readily ascertainable, the same rule applies to all firms, and the basics of the system are easily understood by the industry and the public. It thus tends to be self-enforcing.   Over time, however, the system is plagued with problems that become ever more serious. First, the regulator must decide how to price new products, how to deal with existing firms that are earning low profits or are losing money, and how to treat new investment.70 These problems begin to require consideration of firms or industries individually, and the problems associated with cost-of-service ratemaking begin to reappear.71 Second, items of *566 the same product produced at different times and having cost different amounts to produce will come to have different prices. The existence of such price “vintages” leads to an allocation problem: who gets the lower priced product? Third, enforcement becomes ever more difficult as varieties of evasion become widespread. Credit, payment, terms of delivery, and discounts can be tightened. Product quality may deteriorate: supermarkets may sell their “free” parking lots to developers, or lawyers may accomplish less work per hour billed. As with other sorts of price regulation, those subject to it will search for unregulated markets in which to sell their products: natural gas producers sell their gas intrastate; beef farmers ship to Canada; medical equipment producers make models just cheap enough to fall outside the category of medical expenditures subject to government control. Fourth, it becomes difficult to direct new investment to where it is most needed, for prices are not allowed to rise in response to increased consumer demand or producer need.   In sum, the system becomes more and more complex as the regulator seeks to meet each problem with additional price, quality, and allocation regulation. It evolves toward cost-of-service ratemaking, where specific firms or industries are regulated individually in accordance with those classical principles.   3. Allocation Under a “Public Interest” Standard.-- Regulators frequently must allocate scarce resources, such as television licenses, liquor licenses, airline routes, certificates of need for hospitals, or natural gas, among competing applicants. When the regulator cannot legally use a market-based system (such as an auction) or a lottery to do so, and when supply of the commodity or permit is too limited to satisfy all the applicants who meet a set of minimum standards of qualification, the regulator often develops a procedure, such as a comparative hearing, for comparing applicants to determine which is the “best.”   This method for awarding television licenses, liquor licenses, airline routes, and a host of other scarce items is characterized by the need to decide (in chronological order): (1) what precisely will be given away, (2) what threshold criteria will eliminate those who are not minimally qualified, (3) which of the remaining applicants is “best,” and (4) how long the successful applicant is to retain the license or right to a commodity. The most difficult of these decisions typically is the third--who is the “best” among those minimally qualified? To make this decision, regulators usually promulgate a lengthy list of conflicting criteria, and then rely upon subjective judgment to apply and to balance those criteria in individual cases.72   *567 At the heart of the regulator’s problem is the tension between a desire to find standards that will “objectively” select the winner from the final group and a belief that the exercise of subjective judgment is inevitable because no set of standards exists that will work uniformly to select the “best” applicants in terms of the objective of the regulatory program.73 The FCC’s efforts to develop standards for awarding television licenses, for example, have led it to emphasize “diversity of media ownership” and “integration of management and ownership” as key factors determining selection.74 Yet if rigorously applied, the first of these would favor General Motors’ acquisition of a Detroit station over that of an Albuquerque newspaper owner. And the second would tend to favor those few managers rich enough to put up their own capital. The FCC will modify the application of these standards by considering and subjectively balancing other factors, but then it is subjective judgment and not these two standards that tends to decide close cases. Moreover, those standards that are capable of elaboration with sufficient detail to select objectively deflect the decision from the primary objectives of the regulatory statute, such as “good” programing in the FCC’s case. If the regulator is to take the statutory objective seriously, he is more likely to believe it is a function of many different qualities of competing applicants, such as past experience, trustworthiness, plans, and financial backing, not just “diversity” and “integration.” But unless each factor is to be assigned a fixed and arbitrary weight, comparisons in light of them require an exercise of subjective judgment. The task is managerial, rather like selecting an executive; objective criteria, while useful and relevant, cannot be applied determinatively if one wishes to find the best person for the job. This tension between the need for objective standards and the importance of subjective judgments spawns several problems that typically plague public interest allocation, which can be illustrated as well by airline route allocation as by television licensing.   First, it is difficult to separate the determination of “what” is being allocated from the question of “who” will get it. As in the writing of job descriptions, one can shape the “what” so that the “who” is also described. To avoid this, the CAB holds massive hearings covering route selections for the entire South in which both “what” and “who” questions are simultaneously at issue. Delta Airlines might argue, for example, that the Board should give away a “Tucson-Los Angeles route” (for which it is the most logical candidate), while National Airlines could argue for an “El Paso-Los Angeles route with a Tucson stopover,” *568 (for which it could be the logical candidate). The number of combinations and permutations that might be advanced in a single set of such CAB hearings is large indeed.   Second, the selection process, once past the minimum qualification stage, runs into the major standard-setting problem discussed above: there are too many standards, without clear rules how they apply to individual cases or how they are to be weighed. The CAB when awarding routes took into account such diverse factors as whether the carrier will render effective service desired by the public; whether it can provide benefits to “beyond segment” traffic; whether there will be “route integration”; the needs of local communities; historical patterns of service; effects in diverting traffic from other carriers; and the carriers’ needs for financial strengthening.75 But it was never made clear either how these criteria applied precisely, or how they were to be weighed one against the other.76   The result of having standards which simply list “factors” without clear priorities is unmanageable agency hearings.77 The number of issues remains open; each applicant argues for the preeminence of criteria that favor its cause; evidence on each point is cumulated (for who knows what final argument will spell the difference in a close case). Inconsistent decisionmaking may also result, for there is no way the public or the courts can determine whether the agency is balancing consistently from case to case. Indeed, the CAB’s staff described the results of the Board’s carrier selection processes as “random.”78 Finally, the public begins to suspect corruption, as highly valuable routes, permits or commodities are awarded, without clear standards, by political appointees subject to the temptation of repaying political debts.79   Third, the renewal process favors incumbents. The FCC has refused to renew television licenses only twice in its history.80 *569 This is not surprising considering the fact that it pits proven performance or failure against unsubstantiated promises. It also forces the regulators to notice that identifiable persons have inevitably relied upon continuing in possession of their license regardless of possible warnings by regulators not to do so.81 The deep-seated regulatory tendency to protect such identifiable reliance interests--whether or not incumbents have received advance warnings-- may reflect political, legal, or moral factors. When the other factors governing selection of an applicant conflict, incumbency tends to carry the day, for it points to a single applicant.   4. Historically Based Allocation.--Just as history can provide a simple standard for temporarily circumventing cost-of-service ratemaking, so it can help to circumvent the complexity of “public interest allocation”--but at a price. Goods temporarily in short supply (such as oil in 1973, California water in 1976, or natural gas in 1977), can be allocated provisionally according to historical use in a specific preceding year less x percent. This system has many of the same virtues and vices of historically based price setting. It, too, is unstable, and tends to evolve toward public interest allocation.   A first, major problem arises out of the ever growing need to make exceptions. As time passes, strictly historical allocation appears increasingly unfair. While one family needs more water for additional children, another needs it only for watering its lawn. Firm A could easily use nearby coal instead of oil; Firm B can not. Special needs for increasing amounts of the product are ignored. Some account must also be taken of new entry. Families move; firms seek to enter an industry. To ignore the new family is unjust; to ignore the new firm threatens stagnation. Finally, unless quotas can be modified, existing industrial patterns are frozen; the industry is unable to respond to shifting consumer needs or new technologies. As these exceptions are made, factors justifying exceptions proliferate and one is again faced with an ever more complex system that evolves towards “public interest” allocation.   Second, historical allocation of a good in scarce supply typically requires price controls. Once price controls are instituted, one encounters the problems previously discussed.82 If controls are not instituted, allocation simply allows those with “historical” *570 rights the power to earn rents as they transfer, for example, taxi medallions or liquor licenses to those who will pay the most for them. Only where controls are temporary and resale is impractical (as with California’s water rationing) can this problem be avoided.   Third, widespread allocation controls, like widespread price controls, are usually temporary. This fact produces a perverse incentive to raise prices or increase consumption before controls are imposed, so that the user’s base is higher when they take effect.   5. Standard Setting.--Although “standard setting” is so widespread and used in so many different contexts that generalization is dangerous, these regulatory programs nonetheless share certain common features. Ideally, one might expect regulators to set standards through the use of cost-benefit principles. The actual process, whether it involves the setting of safety standards, health standards, or environmental standards, differs radically from this “policy planner’s” ideal. In particular it relies heavily upon political debate for a description of the problem to be solved (e.g., auto safety) and the particular causal elements they will try to control--e.g., brakes and seatbelts, but not outside signal lights to call attention to excessive speed. The agency relies on existing precedent for the creation of initial standards. OSHA, for example, simply republished hundreds of existing safety standards it culled from other organizations, including such outdated rules as one forbidding the use of ice in drinking water for fear that the ice was “cut” from polluted ponds.83 Moreover, for the formulation of standards the process relies not upon cost-benefit analysis but upon a form of negotiation among affected parties in which political factors may play an important role. The procedure is also subject to lengthy delay. The development of safety standards for automobiles, for example, has dragged on for years: more than ten years for passive restraints, seven for brakes, and nearly eight for tires.84 The resulting standards have proven surprisingly inflexible and resistant to change. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), for example, found in 1976 that its 1969 “head restraint” *571 standard for automobiles was ineffective, but it has not yet been able to change it.85   These characteristics arise naturally out of certain problems endemic to most standard-setting regulatory programs. The most typical and most serious of these problems is the regulator’s need for and his difficulty in obtaining accurate and complete information in which he has confidence.86 The regulator’s sources of information are normally limited, and each source has characteristic flaws.87 The industry may provide relevant data, particularly about technology, probable costs, and likely economic impact. But the adversary posture of the industry often leads the regulator to distrust industry-provided information, for the industry has an incentive to supply that information most favorable to its cause.88 Since the industry need respond only with information relevant to a specific proposed standard, the adversary relation also hinders the production of complete information useful in developing alternative standards. Only occasionally can the regulator overcome these problems by exploiting potential adversary relationships among different elements of the industry or industries before him.89   The agency can instead turn to its staff for expertise and information. Yet much of the needed information is so detailed that only by replicating the industry’s expertise could the agency obtain it.90 How is the agency to determine, for example, precise characteristics of an all-weather track that can be used to test the comparative wear and tear, blowout, and stopping distance characteristics of tires? Will a 5,000 mile test, instead of a 10,000 mile test, discriminate against tires that wear out quickly *572 for the first 5,000 miles but then more slowly? NHTSA was able to answer such detailed, but important, questions in its eight-year tire standard-setting effort only after hiring as a staff member a man who had retired as vice-president of Uniroyal where he had worked for thirty years.91 Aside from the conflict-of-interest problems inherent in such an approach, it is both impractical and wasteful to try to build a second automobile firm within NHTSA or to replicate vast amounts of industry expertise within the federal government.   The agency can also seek help from outside experts such as academic authorities or consultants.92 But often these experts themselves do not possess the mass of up-to-date detailed information needed to set an intelligent standard. They too must frequently rely for their information upon industry.   Finally, consumer groups, often in an adversary posture toward industry, tend to have the least experience of all. Though they may appeal to competing elements within industry for help, they frequently are dependent upon the agency and outside experts for information.   Moreover, the information available anywhere may be far less complete than the regulator would like. To avoid simply relying upon past standards, agencies may be tempted to guess about the extent to which industry will be able to develop new technology to meet the standard.   The need to develop information in an adversary mode makes the exploration of alternative standards time consuming and the coordination among overlapping standards difficult.93 The adversary method of information gathering produces back-and-forth question and answer, related to a specific proposed standard, which can undergo modification only over time. And insofar as the same firms are affected by several standards at issue, answers to requests for information may depend on other agency action, particularly if different agencies are involved.94   *573 A second problem raised by standard setting is enforcement. Regulators must have standards that are practicably and readily enforceable. Tests to determine compliance must be capable of simple application by the industry and agency staff. This need will bias the standard towards enforceability rather than achieving the ends sought. For example, NHTSA’s passive restraint standard must be designed to apply to a readily buildable test “dummy” even if doing so means requiring features not relevant to the protection of a human being.95 The regulator often will have to choose between “design” standards, which are readily enforceable, and “performance” standards, which encourage the development of new technology.96 The need for enforcement will bias his choice in the former direction. And the smaller the agency’s resources, the more the agency must rely upon voluntary compliance for enforcement--which biases choice further in the direction of simple standards which the industry finds reasonable.   Third, standard setting adversely affects competition within the regulated market. It makes the cost of doing business more expensive, raising entry barriers in the process.97 At the same time, the specific standards chosen will favor some companies over others, often in unpredictable ways. For example, the selection of a bumper standard requiring no dent in five-mile-per-hour crashes would favor rubber bumper manufacturers, while a standard allowing slight dents would keep steel bumper manufacturers in business.98 Existing firms usually can influence regulators to write standards sufficiently flexible to keep them in business, through specific exemptions or “grandfather” rights if necessary.99 But potential entrants not yet in the business are unlikely to be *574 able to influence the agency in such a manner, even when they are identifiable.   Fourth, these standards must survive judicial review. Review ordinarily consists of a check by the courts to see whether the statute has been complied with, to assure that the regulator has not acted arbitrarily or capriciously, and to make certain he has used fair procedures.100 Since in practice courts usually uphold the agency’s action,101 at first blush it may seem surprising that these minimal requirements create problems.   Initially, the adversary process together with notice and opportunity for argument and counterargument (“comment”), which strikes a lawyer as basic to any fair procedure, aggravates the problems of standard setting by making it more difficult to consider alternatives not included in the rulemaking notices, to modify initially proposed standards, and to coordinate one set of standards with another.102 To coordinate auto fuel economy standards with pollution exhaust standards, for example, or to determine which among the vast number of potential brake standards is best, involves regulators in what Lon Fuller described as a “polycentric,” or “management,” problem.103 This is a problem best solved through informal give-and-take among many knowledgeable and affected parties, with exploration of a wide range of alternatives and patterns of overlapping standards and continual modification and revision. The back-and-forth nature of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process, with its requirement of new notice and a new round of comments with each significant change, does not lend itself easily to such an approach.104 Recent decisions of the courts which would restrict informal access to regulators by forbidding ex parte communications may further aggravate this back-and-forth problem.105   *575 Moreover, the requirement of judicial review produces the need for a record that will withstand review and draws the agency toward standards that can be documented.106 Regulators will additionally be drawn toward standards that can be supported by existing studies even if the regulators lack confidence in the studies, rather than developing new standards which will lack apparently objective support. Finally, judicial review is time consuming. Technical personnel must keep records as to why they make each decision, a process often foreign to their training. Hearings, records compilation, and review, particularly for decisions involving highly complex technology, often take far longer than Congress expects in setting statutory deadlines.   These four types of problems--information, enforcement, competition, and judicial review--explain to a considerable degree why the standard-setting process so often deviates from the policy planner’s ideal. They also explain why in setting standards the agency is so often attracted to “negotiated” or “mutually satisfactory” solutions.107 Given the agency’s comparative inability to secure necessary information, particularly as to costs and competitive impacts, the desirability of securing voluntary compliance and industry cooperation in developing enforcement procedures, and the advantage of avoiding the time and effort that would otherwise accompany judicial challenge, accommodation with adversary parties has obvious advantages. The agency’s temptation to base its work on preexisting standards is understandable in light of the difficulty of developing information needed to allow radical departures. Preexisting rules also provide the regulator with security. They are probably workable and enforceable and have been accepted as nonarbitrary. Finally, one can easily see why rules tend to be rigid, resisting modification or abolition, once one understands the time and effort needed to work through the complex process of making a new rule.   6. Individualized Screening.--As discussed above, the standard-setting process depends upon the ability to formulate standards that are easily applied and enforced. In many cases, however, it will be impossible to formulate precise standards both that fulfill the regulatory aims and that can be applied by lay persons. The vagueness of standards (e.g., “qualified doctors”) or scientific uncertainty (e.g., products that cause cancer) requires regulators to screen out on a case-by-case basis those individual *576 products or persons that do not meet the vague or complex regulatory standards.   Such individualized scrutiny has been applied to airline pilots, lawyers, doctors, food additives, prescription drugs, toxic substances, pesticides, and nuclear power plants. In the case of chemicals (drugs, additives, pesticides) and nuclear power plants, many of the major difficulties arise because the standard is a highly vague and general safety standard requiring considerable expertise for meaningful application.108   The special types of problems that can arise with individual screening are well illustrated by efforts to screen food additives in order to weed out low-risk carcinogens. As in standard setting, the initial problem is to develop more precise standards or practical tests for identifying cancer causing substances. Testing procedures are expensive, costing up to half a million dollars per chemical tested.109 Because of the expense and time involved, only a few substances can be thoroughly tested for toxicity. Moreover, the tests adopted are, for practical reasons, unlikely to be convincingly tailored to the general regulatory goal. For example, suspected carcinogens are tested by using extremely high doses on laboratory animals over a short period of time when the real concern is over the effect of small doses on humans over a long period of time.110 Such tests therefore rarely give results sufficiently accurate to warrant basing regulatory decisions upon them. Thus the regulator finds that test results will not relieve him of the need to make highly subjective, highly judgmental decisions in the face of inadequate information. This seems to be the inevitable result of the scientific uncertainty that calls for the use of individualized screening in the first place.   Second, there is an informational problem as in cases of ordinary standard setting. The problem is aggravated in the case of individualized screening because a regulator will often try to delegate *577 the decision to a group of outside experts.111 Often those who are most qualified to serve on such a panel are those who have the greatest potential conflict of interests-- representatives of the producing industry or regulated profession.   Third, it is often more difficult to determine the benefits of a particular substance than to determine its risks. Determining health benefits in the case of a chemical additive, for instance, raises difficulties equal to determining its risks, with the added problem of assessing the health risks of potential substitutes to which consumers may turn.112 Similarly, if one is not to license a nuclear plant because of potential dangers, one must also consider the benefits of providing additional power, the dangers posed by power shortages, and the dangers posed by alternative sources of power, such as coal.113 Each of these decisions, as well as the initial decision regarding potential dangers of the power plant, requires considerable expertise and the application of vague standards. Furthermore, it is clear that both food additives and nuclear plants provide nonhealth benefits, and these benefits must be assessed and weighed against the danger to health.   Fourth, agencies evaluate existing products with criteria different from those used for new entrants. In the case of food additives, regulators often cope with other regulatory problems by imposing a strict burden of proof upon manufacturers who seek to introduce new substances.114 The effect of imposing rigid test requirements is to make such products more expensive, and to reduce the likelihood they will be approved. Thus a new product may be screened out even though in fact it poses less danger and may provide greater benefits than a product already on the market. In the case of an existing product, significant groups of consumers or workers have expressed some preference for it, and presumably some benefit has been shown, so the regulator will be wary of banning it.   Finally, the problems posed by judicial review and limitations on administrative procedures are more pronounced in the case *578 of individualized screening, since the process by its very nature is more like adjudication than rulemaking.   C. Alternative Regimes The merits of classical regulation can be judged only after a comparison with the available alternatives. Deregulation is not the only choice. The government has available a number of alternative tools or regimes that may be used, or introduced, to deal with market defects. In making comparisons that will help identify severe cases of regulatory failure the following alternative regimes should be kept in mind.   1. Unregulated Markets Policed by Antitrust.--In deciding whether to regulate one should compare the likely defects of the unregulated market with the potential effectiveness, and the likely defects, of classical regulation.115 But one should recognize that “unregulated” markets are subject to the antitrust laws--a form of government intervention designed to maintain a workably competitive marketplace.116 Antitrust enforcement is a form of government regulation, but unlike “classical” economic regulation it seeks to achieve the conditions of a competitive marketplace, rather than replicate the results of competition or correct for its defects.   The antitrust laws are most effective in their efforts to preserve competitive market structures through prohibitions on mergers.117 When the cases involve well-publicized and substantial transactions, such as large corporate mergers, and the relief--an injunction--is relatively simple, antitrust enforcement can be highly effective. Effectiveness of the law is more debatable when enforcement requires discovery of surreptitious conduct such as price fixing among competitors. Nonetheless, these laws are generally thought to stop much price fixing, boycotts, market divisions, and other similar conduct, including instances in which individual firms charge below-cost predatory prices. The greatest strength of the antitrust laws lies in their ability to preserve competition in markets that are already structurally competitive.   Many would argue that antitrust effectiveness is minimal when enforcement requires lengthy litigation, as in monopolization *579 cases and other cases that seek to restore competition to markets that are already highly concentrated. Traditional monopoly cases take many years to conclude.118 Moreover, the law itself, as traditionally interpreted, allows antitrust enforcers to restructure markets only when a single firm “monopolizes” a market. It does not allow restructuring of highly concentrated industries in which a handful of major firms may together exercise significant market power.119   Antitrust enforcement is not a useful tool for controlling the market power of a natural monopolist, for the ordinary antitrust remedies of dissolution or divestiture are inappropriate. Moreover, antitrust enforcement is not directly relevant to the problem of spillover costs, or to the failure of the market to supply adequate information to consumers (unless the failure is conspiratorial). Antitrust is more useful in dealing with the problems of “excessive competition” insofar as those problems amount to concern with “predatory pricing.”   2. Disclosure Regulation.--Regulation that requires disclosure of certain information is so common today that it may be regarded as another form of “classical regulation.” It is presented here as an alternative regime, however, because it does not regulate the production processes, the output, price, or allocation of products, or otherwise restrict the influence of individual choice in the marketplace as directly as do the classical regulatory forms discussed above. Moreover, like antitrust regulation, it can be viewed as helping to achieve a more competitive market.   Legislation that requires disclosure may be used for totally noneconomic purposes, such as helping enforce the law against gambling,120 or informing voters about campaign contributors.121 When used for economic regulatory purposes, disclosure typically helps buyers make more informed choices. The regulator must set standards governing what is to be disclosed, where, and how. He must decide how these standards will be enforced. In setting those standards, he will have to deal with those very problems of information, enforcement, anticompetitive effects, and judicial review that plague other forms of standard setting.122   *580 Consider, for example, the problems faced by NHSTA in deciding what combination of stopping distance, treadwear, and blowout resistance characteristics for auto tires would be disclosed, and how.123 The agency had great difficulty gathering the information needed to develop a meaningful rating system; developing a fair testing system for enforcement purposes was difficult; the rating system, some feared, would unfairly favor certain firms over others; and preparing the necessary support to survive judicial review was time consuming. The whole process took eight years.124   Nonetheless, there remains one important difference between disclosure standards and ordinary standards governing primary conduct. When ordinary standards forbid or dictate the type of product that must be sold or the process that must be used, they interfere with consumer choice and impede producer flexibility. And to the extent that those standards deviate from the “policy planner’s ideal” (as they inevitably do), these restrictions on choice and conduct are clearly undesirable. Standards governing disclosure, however, do not restrict conduct beyond requiring that information be provided. The freedom of action that disclosure regulation allows vastly reduces the cost of deviations from the “policy planner’s ideal.” At worst, too much, or the wrong, information has been called for. It does not stop buyers from obtaining products or producers from making them. Thus when regulators seek disclosure, they need not fine-tune standards quite so precisely. They themselves need less information from industry, there are fewer enforcement problems, there is less risk of anticompetitive harm, and there is greater probability of surviving judicial review. Although NHSTA faced many problems in trying to set tire disclosure standards, its problems would have been still worse had it been seeking to set ordinary standards directing what sorts of tires could or could not be manufactured. Similarly, those who work in the securities industry seem to feel that the SEC’s efforts to stop stock fraud by administering standards that require only disclosure are more successful and more efficient than state efforts to do so through blue sky laws, which often set substantive standards.125   Of course, disclosure is effective only where the public can understand the information disclosed and is free to choose on the basis of that information. Where these conditions exist, disclosure standards often offer a less restrictive means than standards governing primary conduct to obtain a regulatory end.   *581 3. Taxes.--Taxation ordinarily seeks to raise revenue, or to encourage conduct through special deductions or credits. So far taxes have only rarely been used specifically to substitute for regulation. But taxation could certainly be used where regulation is aimed simply at transferring income, as when the cost-of-service ratemaking is used to control “rents” or windfall profits that might be earned by those who control scarce low cost sources of oil, natural gas, or housing. Moreover, taxes might be used to deter socially undesirable conduct, such as pollution. It might thereby supplement, or substitute for, classical standard setting.   As applied in the income-transfer area, taxes have the advantage of avoiding the major defects of cost-of-service ratemaking. They bring about prices that equate demand with supply and thus avoid shortages. As applied to the conduct-guiding area, taxes have several characteristics that may prove advantageous.126 The very fact that they do not prohibit an activity, or suppress a product totally, means that those with special needs and willingness to pay may obtain it. Taxes thus lessen the risk, present with standard setting, of working serious harm in an unknown special case. Taxes involve the regulator less directly with the firms regulated, thus mitigating the “protectionist” instinct present in much classical regulation. And perhaps most importantly, taxes, unlike classical standards, provide incentive for ever more technological change and innovation in the socially desired direction. While standards can set an absolute level of sulfur emissions, for example, they cannot readily provide an incentive to emit still less.   Substituting a tax for classical regulation nonetheless introduces a difficult set of problems. Using an excise tax instead of cost-of-service ratemaking to capture excess profits requires the administrator to set the bounds of the tax. If the upper bound is based on production costs, those costs must be determined. If the upper bound is the free market price, then the regulator must decide which market price to use. Employing a tax instead of standard setting to control spillovers requires the administrator to determine both the level of the tax and the amount of “taxable conduct.” Regardless of the purpose of the tax, it must *582 be decided how the proceeds will be spent, which committee of Congress will have legislative jurisdiction, and which agency will have administrative jurisdiction over the tax. Moreover, it should be recognized that the congressional committees are used to dealing with macroeconomic issues and may be unfamiliar with the microeconomic objectives at which a regulatory tax is aimed. This will aggravate the problem of making the tax politically acceptable. Despite these difficulties, the problems raised by taxation may be significantly less serious than those of the regulatory system it would replace. And the very fact that those problems are different from those accompanying classical regulation suggests that a tax regime must be kept in mind as a possible alternative.   4. Market-Based Incentives or Allocation.--In applying taxation to the problem of spillovers, it will often be difficult to determine the correct rate of taxation in order to achieve the desired result. This and other problems involved in using taxes to control spillovers may be overcome to some extent through the use of a closely related system of market-based incentives: a limited number of rights to engage in the conduct (such as pollution) are established, and these are then bought and sold on the free market. Eventually those willing to pay the most for the privilege of engaging in the conduct, usually those for whom the costs of avoiding or limiting the conduct would be the greatest, will buy up the rights. Although such a system raises the problem of the initial allocation of rights (which could be accomplished by a market system such as an auction), the subsequent operation incorporates the flexibility and freedom of choice inherent in the competitive market. Though the system originated to deal with pollution, it might be used whenever it is desired to limit artificially the amount of a certain activity, and it is not necessary that the allocation of the right to engage in the activity be on a “public interest” basis.   5. Bargaining.--The major advantage of bargaining as a method of dealing with regulatory problems is that it achieves consensus. Agreement among those affected by regulation tends to avoid the distortions and difficulties arising out of classical regulation’s adversary mode and its formal back-and-forth procedure.127 Bargaining also helps the various parties to maximize the benefits they can obtain at the expense of others: each side must set its own priorities, and then trade off those desired less for those desired more. With bargaining it is easier to tailor *583 different rules to special needs, and voluntary compliance is thus more likely.   The major weaknesses of bargaining are three. First, there must be some device to force the parties to reach agreement, and that device may affect their comparative bargaining strengths.128 Second, the intended beneficiaries of regulation may not be organized or may not be strong enough to make the process meaningful. Third, the final decision may affect others not at the bargaining table who cannot protect themselves.129 Despite these problems, collective bargaining is thought to work well in labor relations, where the need to achieve consensus is primary. As applied to regulatory matters, however, consensus may be thought less important. The government can very likely impose its own solutions. Moreover, affected parties may agree most readily only about “worst cases”--the most obvious examples of the evil at which the regulatory program is aimed; obtaining agreement about how to proceed against lesser evils may be more difficult. But as one abandons the goal of perfect regulation and begins to understand the serious problems embedded in each mode of classical regulation, the use of bargaining becomes an attractive alternative.   6. Changes in Liability Rules.--In certain instances of spill-overs, such as accident safety and environmental pollution, scholars have suggested changes in tort law that would encourage the production of safer products or the greater use of pollution-free processes.130 The notion behind these proposals is to increase the risk of liability (and thus the cost) for those who can most readily reduce the risk of accidents or the level of, for example, air pollution. To rely upon changes in liability rules, however, has often not been thought sufficient.131 The costs of using the courts are high, and those harmed may have inadequate incentive to bring suit. Results are likely to vary from court to court, at least when damages are measured.132 Finally, court decisions inevitably reflect moral133 and legal considerations that may conflict with the efficiency considerations that motivated the proposal for change.   7. Nationalization.--Nationalization as an alternative is less *584 popular in the United States than elsewhere. In principle, it offers a preferable solution to many market defects because it eliminates the adversary relation between regulator and firm. In practice, however, it has been felt to suffer from two serious political defects. Its critics have feared that staffing would reflect political considerations. Ambrose Bierce, for example, defined a lighthouse as a “tall building on the seashore in which the government maintains a lamp and the friend of a politician.”134 Second, the staff of the nationalized firm may view the firm, or those in the government may view it, as an instrument for carrying out a wide variety of “desirable social objectives.” The Central Electricity Generating Board in England, for example, found that it was not allowed to raise prices during serious inflation, for it had to provide “an example” to others.135 The results were uneconomically low prices, distortion in demand, and large electricity subsidies.136 Similarly. British and French nationalized airlines were forced to buy the Concorde for reasons of “national prestige” despite the fact that doing so was economically unsound.137   II. THE FRAMEWORK APPLIED A. General Principles The proposed framework, then, consists of three sets of considerations: (a) typical market defects thought to call for regulation, (b) modes of classical regulation and the problems which accompany them, and (c) alternative regimes. The application of this basic framework may alert an administrator, or one who is proposing new regulatory programs, to problems he is likely to encounter and may guide him toward alternative solutions.   The contemporary problem of controlling rising medical costs provides one example. One possible problem with relying on a free market, as explained above, is “moral hazard,” which results in a lack of incentive on the part of hospitals to hold down costs. The Administration has proposed a regulatory program that would hold hospital prices to historical costs plus a percentage *585 fixed by statutory formula.138 Those considering such a program should be aware that the historical system of price setting evolves toward cost-of-service ratemaking as the need for exceptions forces consideration of individual cases.139 In the case of hospitals, considerations giving rise to exceptions might include new units, special historical need, unusually costly items required by the nature of the service or by needs of the users, and inability to stop wage increases. Given the ability of hospitals to appeal directly to legislatures, the regulator is unlikely to be able to ignore justifiable claims for exception.   The resulting cost-of-service ratemaking in turn brings with it the classical set of problems accompanying that regime, including those problems associated with the test year, inefficiency, and rate structure. Since those creating such a program are doing so in an effort to improve efficiency, knowledge of the inability of cost-of-service ratemaking to promote efficiency--perhaps its greatest single weakness--calls into question the regulatory scheme.   An alternative way of controlling medical costs directly is to impose a limit on capital expenditures, but requiring hospitals to obtain a “certificate of need” before making such expenditures also raises problems.140 The framework suggests that the regulator will face an allocation problem--at least if the number of certificates is limited and must be allocated to hospitals with excessive demand for them. The regulator may try to find some set of criteria that automatically and objectively select applicants for certificates--for example, allowing hospitals to maintain what they presently operate, categorizing and allocating through some form of quota, or sharing certificates among competitors “equally.” But it is unlikely that there exists any set of standards that can obviate the need for numerous special exceptions, particularly if a meaningful limit is placed on an area’s total expenditure.   Thus the regulator will be pushed toward public interest allocation. Then there will be too many standards or factors relevant to a decision, with no clear way to balance them, and the regulator will become involved in lengthy proceedings leading to inconsistent decisions. To avoid these problems, which are typically associated *586 with public interest allocation, he may allow existing hospitals to settle for themselves through negotiation how to allocate the certificate-of-need entitlements (as is the case in some cities where a certificate-of-need program is being administered).141 Such negotiation may work to the disadvantage of outsiders, may not be totally rational, and may reflect political considerations. But the facts that it obtains consensus among those directly affected, that knowledgeable parties make the allocation decision, and that the worst cases of waste are likely to be stopped may make this bargaining solution preferable to any form of classical regulation.   The above example suggests several general principles that follow from the framework. First, regulation should aim at worst cases, and in attacking such cases regulators should seek simple rules. Efforts to cure every minor defect, to close every conceivable loophole, are ultimately counterproductive.   Second, regulators should rely upon incentives and bargaining when possible to induce more acceptable behavior. Incentives provide a practical method for reconciling the need for simple regulatory rules with the diversity and complexity of the industrial world.142 Bargaining provides a practical method for identifying worst cases and obtaining effective cooperation in dealing with them.   Finally, the focus on problems accompanying classical regulation supports the notion of looking at economic regulation through a procompetitive lens and adopting a “least restrictive alternative” approach. The unregulated market should be relied upon in the absence of a significant market defect. Where the harm produced by the unregulated market is serious, one should turn first to incentive-based (tax) or disclosure regulation. Only where that will not work should classical regulatory modes be adopted.   B. The Selection of Candidates for Reform: The Mismatch of Objective and Regime This Section will discuss the framework’s implications for substantive reform of existing economic regulation. Efforts at reform are likely to prove most fruitful in those cases where the harms caused by the regulation are serious and either the rationale for regulation is not compelling or there exist regimes less *587 restrictive than classical regulation that will obtain its purported objectives. In what follows, I will suggest several maxims that flow from this analysis and illustrate the problems of regulation with contemporary examples.   1. Structurally Competitive Industries (Excessive Competition).--Where classical price and entry regulation is applied to a structurally competitive industry, one should consider abolishing regulation and relying instead upon an unregulated market policed by antitrust. Three arguments support this conclusion. First, application of classical price and entry regulation is likely to produce anticompetitive harms, unnecessarily so in markets that can readily sustain competition. In particular, cost-of-service ratemaking inhibits price cutting and price competition. Firms in a competitive industry subject to cost-of-service ratemaking will compete by providing excessive service or a higher quality product, giving the consumer more service or quality than he wants, and eventually charging a higher price for doing so.143 Second, regulators find it particularly difficult to apply cost-of-service ratemaking to an industry with many firms.144 Third, the rationale for price regulation in such industries is ordinarily weak. The commonly given justification--excessive competition--is simply an empty box.145 Insofar as one legitimately fears predatory pricing, alternatives to regulation, such as the antitrust laws, are available.   Consider, for example, the airline industry prior to the recent dramatic reform in airline regulation.146 Recent government studies show that the industry is competitively structured, consisting of ten major firms which provide more than ninety percent of domestic scheduled airline service.147 But it also contains local service carriers, supplemental carriers, and commuter carriers.148 The industry can support several, perhaps many, firms of efficient size.149 Moreover, entry barriers are not very high.150 Although *588 airplanes are expensive, new entrants can lease them. And entry into new routes by firms already in the industry is inexpensive. Economic conditions in the industry are volatile. Demand for air travel is strongly affected by change in personal income, and profits depend largely upon the number of persons flying,151 since fuller planes cost less to fly per passenger than emptier ones. The industry cost structure is highly complex, for more than 20,000 city-pair combinations receive scheduled air service, and the cost of serving them varies with such factors as distance, congestion, equipment, time, amount of traffic, and relation to the rest of the service network.152   Application of classical price and entry regulation to this industry caused the airlines to compete in services offered rather than price.153 Airlines not only provided gourmet meals but also scheduled more flights than necessary on popular routes--to the point where transcontinental flights, for example, were only thirty-nine percent full on average.154 Fares rose to cover the cost of extra capacity caused by limited price competition.155 Thus, for example, California intrastate carriers (unregulated by the CAB), which flew fuller planes, charged about $26 for the 456-mile, 65-minute San Diego-San Francisco trip. On the comparable interstate, CAB-regulated Boston-Washington, 399-mile, 67-minute flight, the interstate carriers (flying fewer passengers in the same planes) charged $42.156   Classical price regulation also tended to protect the firms already in the industry and their market shares. The CAB allowed no new firms into the industry after 1950.157 The market shares of the major airlines in 1975, compared with those in 1938 when the industry was 1/435 its later size, showed remarkable stability.158 Finally, there appeared to be little incentive to perform more efficiently. Airlines that had lower costs were not allowed to seek more business by charging lower prices or, for that matter, *589 by offering wider (and fewer) seats.159 Those with higher costs and lower profits were frequently rewarded (in order to “balance” the industry) through the granting of more lucrative new routes.160 The industry was also plagued by a host of typical regulatory problems: delay, lack of standards, favoritism in awarding routes, interminable proceedings, and secret determination of major policies without hearings.   To those familiar with the classical regulatory process and problems, set out in Part I, these complaints and adverse effects are not surprising. How is the CAB supposed to apply cost-of-service ratemaking in so complex, volatile, and competitive an industry? There are far too many firms, too many routes, and too many changes to do so firm by firm, route by route. For a time the Board attempted to negotiate changes in rates privately with the industry’s trade association; this method--secret, informal, and lacking consumer participation--was held unlawful.161 The Board then developed, after elaborate and open hearings, a set of rules that automatically determined prices, pegging them to changes in cost on an industrywide basis.162 Although those rules were “fair” and administratively workable (for they dispensed with the need for individualized hearings), they froze fares and prohibited price competition, further channeling the airlines’ energies into service competition.   Similarly, the familiar problems associated with “public interest” allocation surfaced in the Board’s difficulties in allocating route certificates. The Board found it difficult to separate the “who” and “what” questions, it found no single set of consistently usable standards, its proceedings were lengthy and unmanageable, and its decisions were attacked as unfair and possibly corrupt.163   Nor is it hard to understand the inability of the Board to stimulate greater industry efficiency. The efficiency problem plagues all cost-of-service ratemaking. In addition, need for an administrable price system led the CAB to adopt such rules as “equal fares for equal miles.”164 Since “equal miles” might have unequal costs, the Board then found it difficult to determine whether lower profits meant inefficiency or an undesirable route structure.165   Claims to retain regulation seemed particularly ill founded, since the justification for classical regulation in this context was *590 weak. Though airlines spoke of “excessive competition,” that term had no clear meaning as applied.166 Although the airlines argued that more competition on popular routes would destroy the extra profit used to finance service to smaller communities, detailed investigation showed that there was neither significant extra profit nor much cross-subsidization.167 The airlines had long since discontinued most unprofitable routes. Insofar as “excessive competition” referred to a fear of predatory pricing, the antitrust laws were available to deal with the problem.168 Thus, airline regulation presented a case in which the justification for classical regulation was unusually weak, the problems inherent in applying the relevant regulatory modes (cost-of-service rate-making and public interest allocation) were unusually severe, and, in any event, an unregulated market policed by antitrust presented an acceptable alternative.   2. Rent Control.--Classical price and entry regulation is not able to deal effectively with a rent control problem; taxes or deregulation are ordinarily preferable. The objective of rent control is to capture windfall profits earned by producers and to transfer them to consumers. The “windfalls” are earned by the sale of existing or older stocks of a commodity which now costs more to produce.169 Cost-of-service ratemaking seeks to transfer these windfalls to consumers by holding the price of old and new units down to their respective costs.170 Since uniformly low prices yield no new production, while uniformly high prices would capture no windfalls, ratemakers typically set tiered prices, dividing production into categories by cost, and setting lower or higher prices depending upon costs of production within each.171   To use cost-of-service ratemaking in this way, regulators must decide both (1) when the high tier price is high enough to elicit sufficient new production and (2) who will obtain the low-priced product. All users want it, but users cannot be allowed to bid for it, as prices would then simply rise to the high level. How then can it be allocated? The first of these decisions is, as a practical matter, difficult to make, given continuously rising costs *591 of production. The second is, as a theoretical matter, virtually incapable of satisfactory solution.   The problems associated with these decisions are well illustrated by the regulation of the field price of natural gas. Most gas travels through interstate pipelines, regulated by the Federal Power Commission, and is resold to local distributing companies, regulated by state public utilities commissions.172 Many economists believe that producing markets are structurally competitive.173 Several large producers and hundreds of smaller ones operate within each field.174 The degree of concentration is lower than in most American industries,175 and the sales position of each company is volatile. Entry barriers are low, since there are no major economies of scale in gas production, though exploration costs are high enough to require a moderate amount of initial capital.176   In the 1950’s when field prices began to rise, demand arose for regulation. This demand was met when the Supreme Court held that the Natural Gas Act covered gas production as well as transmission.177 The Federal Power Commission then set out to use regulation to transfer windfall profits to consumers.178   Experience with this effort to control rents through cost-of-service ratemaking highlights many of the deficiencies typically associated with this type of control. First, serious anticompetitive harm resulted from this approach. The harm primarily took the form of a shortage, which in 1976-1977 resulted in curtailments equal to about twenty percent of total deliveries.179 The shortage was more serious than the curtailments suggest, for price controls had been reflected in the depletion of existing reserves and failure to add new reserves for at least ten years.180 At the same time, the shortage cannot be blamed entirely on cost-of- *592 service ratemaking, for it is exacerbated by the ability of producers to obtain higher prices in unregulated intrastate markets.181   Second, the shortage at least in part reflects the inability of the ratemaking system to deal with the problems of setting a high price and allocating the low-priced gas. To determine a proper high price the Commission had to determine a reasonable profit--a difficult problem, complicated by the speculative nature of gas investments, the vast numbers of producers, and the complex accounting system they used. The Commission had to allocate joint costs between gas and oil--an impossible task when one product is regulated and the other not. It had to determine probable future costs with no firm basis for prediction because of changing conditions of production. At the same time, the large number of producers made proceedings awkward and lengthy, and revision of price rules difficult. In the face of these serious problems, the Commission tended to choose compromise figures from among the conflicting data presented. Its figures were biased downward by the fact of compromise and by the fact that “interim ceilings” in effect for several years may have driven high-cost producers from the industry; the more supportable production cost estimates were older and therefore lower. Producers too may have underestimated the extent to which costs would rise, leading to a high price which was lower than the cost of elicting new supply but which proved rigid and difficult to change once fixed.182   Moreover, the problem of allocating the low-priced gas proved virtually impossible to solve. Gas was allocated to pipelines on an historical basis, and firms then naturally sought to locate their plants along pipelines that had older, cheaper sources of supply. As industrial supplies became scarcer, firms moved south to take advantage of gas availability even at higher prices.183 Along any particular pipeline, the allocation problem among current customers was disguised, for pipelines sold at a price that averaged old and new gas. Such a system works to keep the price seen by the customer lower than the price of new gas as long as there is old, cheap gas within the system. This system created excess demand for cheap gas--and insofar as prices were averaged, excess demand was created for all gas.184 The shortage *593 thus reflected both too little supply and inordinately high demand, with gas going to historical customers rather than to those who may have needed it more or who would pay more for it. These effects flow directly from the use of classical regulation.   Finally, the shortage called into being a regulatory allocation system designed to allocate “curtailments,” thus producing the problems typical of allocative regulatory regimes. The Federal Power Commission first tried to develop a set of standards that would automatically allocate gas to those most in need. It ordered pipeline companies to curtail interruptible sales first, followed by large, industrial boiler fuel uses, followed by other large commercial and industrial uses, followed by residential and small commercial uses. Throughout, it curtailed uses that could switch to available alternative fuels before those that could not. The Commission soon began to realize, however, the need to make numerous exceptions, for there was no necessary correspondence between the categories it had initially drawn and any reasonable set of social priorities.185 As a general matter, one might conclude that residential uses are more important than commercial, industrial, boiler fuel, or interruptible sales. Yet the fact that a contract called for “interruptible” service might show only that the user, willing to help the pipeline balance its load, found an alternative energy source during the short winter peak season; it did not show the user could withstand severe curtailment. Thus it did not provide a basis for saying that society is better off if, during a serious shortage, all “interruptible” customers are curtailed first. Piedmont Natural Gas Company confronted this problem when it discovered that it provided twenty hospitals with “interruptible” service.186 Should they have been cut off during an entire winter before ice cream parlors or skateboard manufacturers?   In trying to formulate standards for curtailment the Commission faced a serious information-gathering problem. There are about 210,000 industrial gas users, natural gas has more than 25,000 different industrial uses, and different costs may be associated with each.187 The pipelines serve distributors who in turn serve end customers. The Commission thus may not know to what use most of the gas is eventually put. Moreover, the *594 Commission faced serious enforcement problems. End-use customers tended to classify themselves in whatever manner increased their allotment, and neither the Commission nor the pipeline companies could readily verify their responses. Nor could the Commission force distributors (subject to state regulation) to follow the federal curtailment program. The curtailment rules also had a variety of arbitrary effects on competition, due to the random way in which they distributed increased fuel costs.188   The difficulty of creating a sensible set of rules automatically to allocate scarce gas led the Commission to the only alternative: an exception process that amounted to public interest allocation.189 Firms could apply for relief from a curtailment plan by showing a special need. A host of factors was relevant: extent of unemployment, type of end use, conversion costs, end product of gas use, and effect of relief on other customers.190 No clear method for balancing these factors was provided. Hearings became enormously lengthy and time consuming, breeding inconsistency and suspicion of favoritism.191   To avoid both the standard-setting and public interest allocation problems, the Commission encouraged each pipeline to negotiate curtailment plans among all its customers.192 Those plans reflected the virtues and the drawbacks typical of negotiation: not all relevant parties were represented, and the result reflected political, administrative, and legal considerations rather than economic need. But perhaps negotiation was the most practical way to proceed.193 Thus, the Commission proceeded from standard setting to public interest allocation to bargaining in order to solve its allocation problem.   The rationale for regulation--the desire to transfer rents or windfall profits from producers to consumers--is plausible; unlike excessive competition, it does not describe an “empty box.” Yet there is an alternative regime, a tax system, that may well do the job better. One might impose a tax that would have the effect of transferring the “excess” producer profits to consumers and thereby accomplish the major regulatory objective without the severe problems endemic to classical regulation.194   Of course, the application of a tax system raises problems of its own. The amount of the tax is difficult (but not impossible) *595 to calculate. The Administration’s oil wellhead tax plan, for example, categorized oil roughly according to cost, allowed the price of the newest and more expensive oil to rise to free market levels, and in each other category set the tax equal to the difference between “cost” and the free market price.195   By requiring the regulator to categorize old gas or cheap gas according to cost, this system risks his mistakenly putting expensive gas into a cheap-gas category. It requires him to determine which free market price of the several available (varying with product quality and places at which gas is sold) is to be used for tax purposes. The tax system also raises political problems, such as how the tax revenues will be allocated. Moreover, the tax system will end automatically after older, cheaper gas is used up. None of the problems mentioned is likely to prove as harmful as the misallocation brought about by cost-of-service ratemaking. Indeed, the automatic termination is desirable, for the tax ends at the very moment the rationale for its imposition disappears.   In sum, the problems of using a classical regulatory system to deal with rent control are severe, to say the least. They are great enough to warrant detailed exploration of tax or comparable income-transfer alternatives, for the problems inherent in these other methods seem less severe. If it is impossible to secure adoption of the alternative, the magnitude of the problems associated with classical regulation make deregulation arguably preferable to continued cost-of-service ratemaking.   3. Spillovers.--Serious efforts should be made to substitute less restrictive regimes (including taxes, disclosure, and bargaining) for classical standard setting where the problem is one of spillovers. The discussion of classical standard setting suggests that the problems accompanying it are serious. That mode of classical regulation is difficult to administer, can cause serious anticompetitive harm, and can freeze existing technology. The likelihood that those harms will occur is increased by the complexity of the problem, the number of elements that must be monitored, the modifications and exceptions needed, and the degree to which the problems are technologically related.   The four problems to which standard setting is prone are well illustrated by the case of pollution control. The need to balance harms and benefits, to tailor solutions to each polluter’s production processes and locale, and to avoid undue advantages *596 for existing competitors, suggests particularized standards dependent on obtaining detailed and accurate information.196 But the variation in standards and the many points to be policed would then make enforcement difficult. The different costs of alternative technologies in various locations and industries, combined with information-gathering problems, would make it difficult to avoid anticompetitive consequences. And the many different standards needed, combined with the large number of potential plaintiffs, exacerbate the problems of judicial review.   A tax system immediately occurs to many economists as a promising alternative to “spillover” problems such as pollution.197 Since the problem is that the price of a product does not reflect the important social cost it imposes (i.e., pollution), why not simply raise the price through a tax to reflect the harm? The response of the classical regulator is that no one knows how much to raise the price, and it is no easier to decide the amount of the tax than to decide how much smoke the maker of the product should be allowed to emit. Why not, therefore, just tackle the latter question directly through standards?198   The true virtue of a tax regime, however, lies not in its ability to measure pollution’s “cost” but in its ability to provide incentives to direct behavior in a socially desirable direction--without freezing current technology or eliminating a degree of individual choice. Several factors suggest its suitability to an environmental spillover problem.   First, the problem in its very statement suggests that the answer is not an outright ban of polluting products and processes, but rather, a better balance between the two competing goals--a clean environment and industrial production. The objective is to encourage a shift to, or the development of, production processes that allow more of both. Relative prices perform just such functions throughout the economy.199 Putting a price tag upon pollution would allow buyers to balance the competing environmental and industrial goods, and it would provide incentives in the right direction. Whatever the problems of determining how much the price of polluting products or processes should be raised, *597 the use of increased price allows those with a special need or desire for the polluting item to obtain it and provides a continuing incentive to manufacturers to find less polluting production methods.200   Second, “proper” solutions are likely to vary substantially depending upon thousands of products and processes and thousands of locations. Hence one needs a method that allows for that variation. Raising price, and hence allowing use of the process or production method if consumers are willing to pay the price, can to some extent deal with this need for variance.201   Third, the large number of point sources suggests the desirability, from an enforcement point of view, of a fairly simple rule. And a tax system offers the prospect of a system that is fairly simple in application yet can produce variation and flexibility in result.202   There is a market-based alternative to a “pollution tax” that helps to eliminate the uncertainty about whether polluters would continue to pollute and pay the tax. Under this approach the agency would set an absolute limit on the amount of emissions in a given region and would issue “marketable rights” to pollute up to this level. These rights could be sold and resold; they would eventually end up in the hands of those firms with the ability to pay which would find it most expensive to eliminate polluting emissions. While such a system offers certainty about the amount of pollution--for the agency can set an absolute limit--it leaves uncertain the extent to which that absolute limit imposes a cost burden on firms within the region, a matter on which the tax provides more information.203   Of course, these approaches require dealing with the information problems mentioned above. Because of the problems that accompany the creation of a tax or incentive-based system, one must be less confident about the possibility of shifting regimes than in the case of excessive competition or rent control. Yet the potential advantages of a tax or incentive-based system, together with the obvious defects of standard setting, make the effort to devise a practical shift in this area a high priority in substantive regulatory reform.204   4. Natural Monopolies.--Cost-of-service ratemaking seems reasonably well suited to the natural monopoly problem, but its *598 use in one portion of a complex industry radically alters the terms of the debate over regulation elsewhere in that industry. Classical cost-of-service ratemaking is reasonably capable of dealing with a single large firm with costs and demands that stay fairly constant. Its problems there, while serious, are less imposing than when the system is applied to markets with many firms and fluctuating costs and demand. In the former case, the system can hold prices somewhere near cost, offer some incentive for efficiency, and provide some guarantee of fair dealing for the customer.205 More important, there is no obvious alternative regime that offers promise of significant improvement. Nationalization has severe drawbacks and, while accepted in Europe, is politically unpopular here. Unregulated markets would allow the single “natural monopolist” to raise prices well above cost. The pressing need for telephone service and electricity allows for a reasonable fear that without regulation or the threat of it unregulated prices would significantly exceed regulated prices.206 A tax on excess profits of less than 100% would lead the firm to increase its price rather than attempting to produce more efficiently and would raise the difficult question of the profit level at which the “excess” tax rate should apply. One must be pessimistic about the likelihood that an alternative regime can effectively supplant classical regulation in this area.   This is not to say that all ostensible natural monopolies must *599 be regulated. Competitive pressures from other industries may help to keep the prices of a natural monopolist near its costs. For example, the oil industry may provide some competition for the monopolist gas distributor. Yet if one believes that a producer is a “natural monopolist” and possesses considerable unexercised power to raise prices, then it is reasonable to accept cost-of-service ratemaking as the regime most likely to deal with the problem.   To decide that a firm is a natural monopolist with respect to one of its products and that it should be regulated does not decide the extent to which classical regulation should apply to other, related products of the firm. Since most regulated firms are complex entities selling many different services, it is possible that regulation may be appropriate for some services but not others. Yet the very fact that the firm is regulated in part significantly affects the question of whether, or what, regulation is appropriate elsewhere. It distorts the competitive framework in related areas and makes the question of whether competition or regulation is appropriate in these other areas difficult to answer. Consider for example, the recent controversy surrounding the FCC’s efforts to introduce competition into longline telecommunications markets.   Initially, the FCC hoped “to use competitive market forces as an alternative to regulation, which it believed to be ineffective.”207 This “ineffectiveness” arose in large part from the fact that regulation of American Telephone and Telegraph’s (AT&T) prices involves an unusually serious problem of allocating joint costs.208 The handsets in homes and offices and the wires leading to local exchanges are used for both local and long-distance service. The long-distance communications channels (cable, microwave, or satellite) are used for a variety of long-distance services: ordinary message toll service, wide-area telephone service (for which a flat rate per month is charged), and private-line service (connecting two points in distant cities with a continuously open line between *600 them). The problem of allocating the cost of such items among the services that use them plagues cost-of-service ratemaking. Regulators, for practical reasons, tend to use methods that are economically arbitrary.209 The telephone joint-cost problem is aggravated by the fact that the FCC regulates long-distance communications while state agencies regulate local operating companies, which handle local calls.210   The FCC staff argued that the enormous problem of how costs should be allocated among long-distance services might be avoided to some extent and the benefits of competition could be realized if private microwave companies were allowed to set up their own “longline” service (based upon microwave stations), interconnect with AT&T’s local exchanges, and compete with AT&T to provide long-distance private line service211 (for example, direct open lines between, say, General Motors’ San Francisco office and its Detroit plant). For one thing, the new competitors might provide private-line long-distance service at a lower cost. For another, they might provide more innovative service. In any event, they would put pressure on AT&T to cut its prices for similar, competing private-line services and hence its costs of providing them. Finally, new entry would provide a practical test of AT&T’s claim of large economies of scale in longline telecommunications, for if the competitors could survive, despite AT&T’s price competition, that fact might itself show that longline telecommunications service was not a natural monopoly.   Since the FCC is uncertain about whether existing, new low-cost technology makes longline communications a natural monopoly, it might allow new firms to enter, allow all firms to charge prices that reflect “incremental” costs (the additional cost to the firm of providing the additional service at issue), and let the most efficient firm survive. New competition would drive prices towards *601 incremental costs and allow customers to choose among the competing firms on the basis of lowest cost or best service.   The Bell System’s response is important, for it shows how the existence of regulation in one conceded area of natural monopoly (in this case local telephone service) complicates decisionmaking in other, related areas. Bell points out that, given the existence of this regulation, new entry into private longline markets will not necessarily lead to free and open competition.212 Rather, the fact that some of AT&T’s services (e.g., local telephone service, local exchange service) will continue to be regulated by both federal and state governments will prevent AT&T from competing effectively with the new competitors. More specifically, the regulatory rules developed in these other areas will inhibit AT&T’s competing in price with new competitors, because they prevent AT&T from cutting its price to reflect only the additional cost of providing longline service (i.e., the incremental cost). The rules effectively hold a price umbrella over the new firms. AT&T argues that were it free to charge prices for these services that reflected incremental cost, it could easily drive the new competitors from the market; given the rest of its system, longline telecommunications (or private longline services) is a natural monopoly, for the additional cost of providing such service is very low.213   The small competitors argued, however, that AT&T should not be allowed to cut its price to incremental cost, for, given the complexity of AT&T’s accounting system, no regulator could determine whether a low AT&T longline telecommunications price in fact reflected a low natural monopoly cost or whether it constituted a predatory price--a price below the incremental cost of providing the service.214   Once new competition appeared, AT&T responded by cutting its prices, and the FCC had to determine whether those new prices were below AT&T’s costs. Thus, the FCC did not escape the “cost determination” problem. It has had to allocate joint costs, and in so doing it has effectively required AT&T to charge prices on competitive longline services that are closer to average than to incremental costs. Moreover, since AT&T is required by the interstate/intrastate “separations” rules to include some of the costs of its local handsets and wires in its interstate rate base, while *602 its longline competitors need not include such costs in their interstate charges, AT&T starts at a pricing disadvantage.215 For these reasons, in AT&T’s view, the notion that it will be able to compete vigorously and fairly with its competitors is illusory. Rather, regulatory rules will force it to charge prices higher than its incremental costs. In allowing new entry, the FCC runs the risk that higher cost carriers will attract a portion of AT&T’s business, and if it loses many customers, AT&T’s unit costs may rise, for it will not have sufficient volume to provide service at lowest cost.   Those favoring the introduction of competition make several arguments in reply to AT&T. First, whether or not longline communications does, or will continue to, enjoy the cost characteristics of a natural monopoly is uncertain. New technology may always change those cost characteristics. And the competitive pressures brought by new firms makes the introduction of new technology more likely. Second, some add that the regulatory rules which prevent AT&T from responding to new competition by cutting its prices to its incremental cost should be abandoned. Regardless of the economic merits of this goal, however, it is unlikely to be attained as a practical matter as long as jurisdiction is divided between state and federal agencies, for the local regulatory commission will seek to keep its own rates low by allocating as much of AT&T’s costs as possible to its interstate rate base. Finally, it might be claimed that some small inefficiency (some small amount of higher cost facilities) in private longline telecommunications is simply a price worth paying in order to obtain new competitors and the pressure they put upon AT&T to innovate, to operate more efficiently, and to try to cut its prices.   In fact, there was initially little risk that new competition would raise AT&T’s unit cost of service, for the FCC authorized entry only into a very small market--the market for long-distance private line telecommunications.216 Thus even if AT&T’s prices were maintained at high levels to protect new competitors in that area, its loss of business would be small, and the corresponding risk of eroding economies of scale would be small as well.217 But as a practical matter it has proved difficult to confine the new *603 entrants to this small market. The new entrants first obtained permission to interconnect with AT&T’s local exchanges,218 allowing any telephone subscriber to take advantage of the private-line service. They then received permission to sell and resell “portions” of the private lines (for example, three minutes’ worth), effectively allowing them to offer ordinary long-distance service. And the FCC’s efforts to restrict to private lines the area in which the new entrants offered competition have recently been overturned by the courts.219 Thus, the threat to AT&T’s entire longline system is potentially severe.   This discussion is not sufficient to determine whether competition should be allowed in private longline telecommunication. It does suggest that, if one regulates a firm on grounds of natural monopoly, that fact will complicate the question of how far regulation should extend into related areas. The decision is made difficult by the fact that regulation works imperfectly, and it is aggravated by dual jurisdiction. As a result, the regulator may have to choose between a risk of losing efficiencies of size and a risk of losing such procompetitive benefits as pressure for lower prices and increased innovation. Whatever the proper outcome of the controversy, it is apparent that the FCC’s hope that a major shift in regulatory regime (from regulation to competition) would solve its regulatory problems was misplaced.   5. Summary.--In sum, the framework--primary problems; mode of, and problems with, classical regulation; and alternative regimes--helps to establish certain tentative linkages which may in turn guide a program of meaningful regulatory reform. In particular, the framework suggests the following matches between problems and solutions:     *604 The virtue of these tentative linkages is that they suggest where the most serious mismatches may lie, and in some instances they suggest the advisability of replacing classical regulatory programs with less restrictive regimes.     III. FROM CANDIDATE TO REFORM The framework for analysis presented in this Article does not conclusively demonstrate in any individual case that reform should be made. Rather, the framework helps identify “candidates” (existing programs that should be considered as potential subjects) for individualized reform efforts. Whether reform should take place thereafter depends upon a detailed examination of the actual effect of the regulatory program at issue. A detailed empirically based inquiry is necessary because, regardless of the regulatory program’s basic objective (and the possible inability of regulation to achieve that objective), any existing program will in fact serve a host of subsidiary objectives. Moreover, the industry, its suppliers, and its customers will have adjusted to the existing system and the patterns of service that regulation has produced. Technology will reflect those patterns. Countless investment decisions will have been made in reliance upon them. Whether such particular factors make it unwise to introduce systematic change that might otherwise seem warranted can be known only after a detailed examination of the industry in question.   Whether reform can be accomplished depends upon producing a practical plan for change and developing sufficient political support to bring about the change. Any such plan for reform must allow workers, managers, and customers within the industry time to learn how to work within the new regulatory environment and also provide some protection to those who have invested considerable time, effort, and money in reliance upon the existing system.   The most instructive case of how a procompetitive framework, such as that advocated here, can guide reform to the point of achieving practical results is that of airline regulatory reform.220 The example illustrates the three basic steps of achieving regulatory reform: (1) identify a candidate for reform; (2) conduct a detailed empirical study of the regulated industry; and (3) gather the necessary political support to pass the reform program.   By 1974, when Senator Kennedy began to prepare hearings on airline regulation, considerable academic work by economists *605 and others-- including, for example, Caves, Miller, Jordan, and Levine--had been done criticizing the anticompetitive effects of airline regulation.221 Thus the airlines were already a natural choice for deregulation. During 1974 and part of 1975 the staff of the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure conducted detailed fact gathering on the airline industry. The subcommittee then held eight days of hearings on regulation by the Civil Aeronautics Board. The hearings were followed by the publication of a lengthy, detailed factual report urging abandonment of classical regulation and increased reliance upon competition.222   The hearings themselves served three separate but interrelated functions. First, they acted as a catalyst in forcing other agencies of government to focus upon the problem and develop a policy position. When the staff of the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure began to talk to Administration officials about airline deregulation in August 1974 those officials had begun to develop, but had not yet decided whether to present, an airline-regulation-reform plan. The hearings required that the Secretary of Transportation have an answer ready when asked to state the Administration’s position on reform; on the first day of the hearings, Acting Secretary of Transportation John W. Barnum, speaking for the Administration, announced a major policy change in favor of more competition. Subsequently, President Ford appointed a new CAB chairman who began to institute such reforms. The hearings provided the opportunity for those urging reform to contact a wide range of executive and administrative officials; in short, the hearings helped develop a network of persons throughout the government who would influence policy and help each other in the movement for reform. The hearings also acted as a catalyst with respect to the regulated industry. The threat of hearings forced each airline to reassess its position, to develop new information, and to put its own bureaucracy to work to develop and assess alternatives.   Second, the hearings served to gather the detailed factual information used to write a comprehensive report. The report did not need to produce empirical information that would definitively resolve every issue, but it had to be comprehensive. Existing *606 studies could not answer every relevant question, so new information had to be gathered. The empirical effort had to determine who is actually being helped or hurt by the program in order to evaluate the arguments made in its favor. Doing so avoids wasting scarce political resources “reforming” programs that in practice cause minimal harm.   The airlines argued, for example, that competition would not result in lower fares.223 As evidence that reform would result in lower prices, proponents cited the experience with intrastate carriers in California, where fares on intrastate routes were only 50% to 60% as high as those on comparable interstate routes.224 The controversy over the relevance and significance of the “California experience” provides a concrete example of the extent to which detailed facts are needed. Before concluding that increased competition was responsible for the lower fares in California, the subcommittee had to examine airline claims that the differences reflected (1) different weather conditions, (2) traffic density, (3) direction of traffic flow, (4) less congestion, (5) fewer costs from interlining connections with other services, (6) different aircraft types, (7) less need to provide through service, and (8) less need to support other routes in the system. The subcommittee examined each of these factors, and the industry trade association was persuaded to commission an independent study of the causes of the fare differences.   All this information was compiled and sent to the airlines requesting confirmation, refutation, or additional information. The result showed that the main cause of the cost difference was that intrastate airlines flew more passengers on each flight, thus lowering their costs. This fact supported the argument that price competition had induced the airlines to offer the lower fare (and fuller plane) service that most travelers wanted. The net result of the empirical work was that the argument against using the California experience as a comparison simply dropped out of the public debate.   Each of the many major objections to reform had to be treated in a similar manner. While the hearings could not definitively answer all the questions raised, they could investigate them in detail, marshal the relevant information, and base policy recommendations on that work. The result was a 250-page report that was circulated in draft form to all witnesses, firms, unions, and other interested persons for comment. The report was then revised to *607 take all such comments into account. The final document, which recommended major change, was difficult to attack; it obtained a reputation for being thorough and comprehensive,225 and that reputation in turn helped to produce a political attitude that the time had come for change. This attitude was reinforced by further hearings before Senator Cannon’s aviation subcommittee. With the support of President Carter and CAB chairman Alfred Kahn, who began to deregulate the airlines administratively, a major deregulation bill was enacted.226   The third function served by the hearings was as a drama, which helped mobilize public and political support for regulatory reform. To analogize a legislative hearing to a judicial or fact-finding hearing is to miss an essential difference: the legislative hearing has an educational objective and a political purpose. A congressional hearing, in addition to gathering in written form the masses of detailed fact needed to write a report or develop a proposal, moves on a more dramatic or educational oral level which should illustrate the issues in a way that is both comprehensible and interesting to the general public. And the hearings can communicate their message to the public only by capturing the attention of the media.   The subcommittee hearings, for example, were structured so that they in effect told a story: each aspect of the overall regulatory reform problem was covered on a different day, and each day of the hearings was organized to maximize the chance that an “event” of interest would occur. During the first day of the hearings, for example, the Acting Secretary of Transportation announced that the Administration would propose major reform of the Civil Aeronautics Board, an event which was front page news in many newspapers. The strength of the oral hearings lay in their gradual revelation to the journalists, and through them to the public, of the way in which the CAB regulated the airline industry and the potential advantages to be wrought from deregulation.   It is crucial to understand that both the oral, dramatic level and the written, detailed factual level of the hearings are needed. A hearing can capture headlines without detailed factual work. It can look for scandal or distort issues and in doing so capture media attention. But had that been done, the hearings would have proved less effective. The distortion would have produced distrust among the airline executives, union officials, administrators, and others who must be convinced or neutralized before proposals *608 can be enacted. Opponents would have found grounds to discredit the subcommittee’s work. Additionally, without the underlying detailed work in which to ground the proposals, the media attention would have proved ephemeral. Inadequate preparation on the part of the committee would also have prevented it from making its strongest points in public hearings against those who opposed reform. But to do no more than study regulatory reform issues--to do the detailed factual work without the drama that a hearing can provide--would likely have produced only one more report to be placed unread upon a shelf.   It is difficult for several reasons to draw lessons from the experience with airline deregulation. Much of the evidence is anecdotal. More important, one cannot be sure whether airline regulation is a “special case,” whether the issues involved were unusually easy, the timing unusually propitious, or the political forces aligned in an unusually felicitous combination. Moreover, as with any political issue, much depends upon personalities. But one thing is clear: in October of 1978 Congress enacted the Cannon-Kennedy Bill, which effectively deregulates the airline industry.227   Thus, the experience suggests that Congress, and more particularly a congressional committee, is an effective institution for bringing about major individual programs of substantive regulatory reform. A committee can combine its power to gather information with the power to develop significant political support. The executive branch possesses superior ability to do sustained detailed work, but it may be less capable of carrying out certain of the necessary political tasks. Moreover, the experience of the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure suggests there may be an advantage in placing initial responsibility for reforming a particular program in the hands of a committee that does not ordinarily supervise the agency concerned. Although one thereby loses expertise, one is also freed from some of the political or institutional constraints that may make it difficult for the regular congressional committee to carry out the investigation.   The experience also suggests that reform of a particular substantive area requires an intellectual framework that will both identify a candidate for reform and guide a later detailed investigation. Candidates for reform are best treated individually once identified by the framework suggested by this Article. The subsequent investigation may take months or years, but it is a necessary part of any effort to bring about significant change.   *609 IV. CONCLUSION Substantive reform of government regulation might begin with those programs which exhibit most clearly the problems inherent in classical regulation. Some of the examples used here suggest the areas of transportation, energy, and health, safety, and environmental regulation as candidates for efforts to develop “less restrictive alternatives” to classical regulation. The framework for analysis developed and applied in this Article may aid those charged with the responsibility of monitoring those regulatory activities. At the least, this analysis suggests abandoning the simplistic view that “imperfect” free markets call for the introduction of “perfect” governmental regulation.    92 HVLR 549 