I. INTRODUCTIONMacaulay’s statement that copyright was “a tax on readers for the purpose of giving a bounty to writers”1 reveals the conflict of interest between the reader and the book producer that underlies much of the discussion about copyright law.2 The reader wants cheap books. He knows that if the copyright law did not provide an exclusive right to manufacture and sell a particular title,3 and thereby prevent competition in publishing each book, some book prices would fall, making the book more readily available. Moreover, he notes that once the ideas or language that a book contains have been created, they are no more scarce or costly than sunshine or air; and he believes that the public should be able to obtain them easily.4 Although the reader accepts the need for payment to induce the author and publisher *282 to produce a book, he fears that the copyright allows its owner to charge considerably more than is necessary. Book producers, on the other hand, claim that copyright protection is crucial to insure adequate book production. Without copyright protection a copying publisher could avoid many of the costs of the original publisher – payment to the author, editing, plate composition, even initial advertising – simply by photographing the printed pages of a published book. If competition then forced book prices down to the copier’s cost, the first publisher and the author could not obtain adequate compensation. A copyright law, as Macaulay also points out, may represent one way of resolving the conflict between the need for book revenues high enough to secure adequate production and book prices low enough not to interfere with widespread dissemination of what is written.5 Such a law protects a writer’s “expression” but allows free use of the “ideas” that his work contains.6 A copyright system, however, is not the only way to resolve this conflict. It would be possible, for instance, to do without copyright, relying upon authors, publishers, and buyers to work out arrangements among themselves that would provide books’ creators with enough money to produce them. Authors in ancient times, as well as monks and scholars in the middle ages, wrote and were paid for their writings without copyright protection.7 In the nineteenth century American publishers sold countless copies of British works and paid their authors royalties despite the fact that *283 American copyright law did not protect British works.8 It would also be possible for the government to pay for books to be produced.9 Nonetheless, reliance upon copyright protection is widespread. In fact, throughout recent lengthy congressional hearings on a major Copyright Revision Bill,10 the wisdom of such protection was often taken for granted. But copyright protection has faults. And its drawbacks should be more thoroughly understood before Congress votes on a bill that would significantly extend its boundaries. Part II of this article will explore the assumptions and the principles underlying copyright protection; it will ask what would happen to book publishing if copyright were abolished.11 We shall conclude that the case for copyright in the book trade is not *284 a strong one generally and is even weaker for some parts of that trade.12 Taken as a whole, the evidence now available suggests that, although we should hesitate to abolish copyright protection, we should equally hesitate to extend or strengthen it. Part III of the article will examine several ways in which the comprehensive Copyright Revision Bill now before Congress would increase protection.13 The bill would extend copyright’s duration from a maximum of fifty-six years to “life of the author plus fifty years.”14 It would allow more effective protection against those who make xeroxed15 copies of books. It would allow the copyrighting of computer programs. Part III will argue that in none of these areas has the case for increased protection been adequately made. II. THE BASIC ARGUMENTS FOR PROTECTIONArguments for copyright protection are of two sorts: Some are based upon the author’s “moral rights” to reap the fruit of his labors or to control what he has created. Others rest upon the economic inducement to publication that copyright provides. We must analyze both lines of argument before reaching conclusions about the value of existing copyright law. A. “Moral” Justifications for Copyright ProtectionThe theory that authors have a natural right to the fruit of their labors is an ancient one. In the sixteenth century a noted French lawyer argued that a book cannot be printed without the author’s permission, for just as “the heavens and the earth belong to [God], because they are the work of his word .... [s]o the author of a book is its complete master, and as such can dispose of it as he chooses.”16 A similar theory probably underlies *285 the legendary King Diarmed’s succinct, bucolic analysis of copyright: “To every cow its calf.”17 The Register of Copyrights enlarges on this view when he claims that the law “has an important secondary purpose: To give authors the reward due them for their contribution to society.”18 The difficulty with the theory lies in discerning the extent to which an author should be able to maintain control of a published book. How large is the fruit? How big the calf? Just what is the reward that is due him? It is unlikely that “fruit” or “reward” is meant to refer to the amount of money needed to persuade a man to write a book. One has no need for a copyright law in order to guarantee the payment of such a sum, for, in the absence of slavery, an author will not write unless he is paid his “persuasion” cost. “Fruit” or “reward,” then, must mean something more. It is often said that an author should receive the “value” of his work to society – a value that might be measured in terms of what those who benefit from the book would be willing to pay rather than do without it.19 But few workers receive salaries that approach the total value of what they produce. The social value of the work performed by the man who invents the supermarket, the man who clears a swamp, the academic scientist, or the schoolteacher may be much greater than his pay.20 Moreover, workers in competitive industries make products that sell at prices well below what many of their buyers would be willing to pay for them.21 We do not feel that owners, managers, or workers in such *286 industries are for this reason morally entitled to higher wages.22 Indeed, when a worker without competition – perhaps because he is the only doctor in the area, or the only engineer capable of building a certain bridge – could charge a price close to the total value of his services to the buyer, we normally encourage competition, which will force him to charge less. There is nothing inherently immoral in the fact that many workers are paid less than the social value of what they produce, for much of the excess of social value over persuasion cost is transferred to the consumer in the form of lower prices.23 It is not apparent that the producer has any stronger claim to the surplus than the consumer or that the author’s claim is any stronger than that of other workers. In fact, why is the author’s moral claim to be paid more than his persuasion cost any stronger than the claim of others also responsible for producing his book: the publisher, the printer, the bookseller, and those responsible for the literature of the past that inspired him? In sum, simply to speak of “fruits of one’s labor” does not show that the author should be paid more than his persuasion cost or how much more he should be paid. In particular, it does not demonstrate that the amount he receives under existing copyright law is any more “just” than what he would receive without copyright protection or under a different copyright system.24 Two special claims might be advanced, however, on the author’s behalf, though neither persuades me of the need for copyright. First, one could argue that society, regardless of how it treats other workers, should especially reward a creator of a great work of lasting social value for the general contribution he has made to social progress, a contribution that extends over and beyond the value he has provided purchasers of his work. But this claim, even if accepted, provides only limited support for copyright. For one thing, a copyright system on this theory rewards the wrong works. It tends to favor the commercial, popular work with large sales, for the buyers of many serious and important *287 works are often few in number25 and notoriously in need of funds.26 Further, copyright’s tendency, through higher prices, to restrict dissemination will prove particularly harmful when the work is a great one. Finally, a more equitable distribution of the cost burden, and one that will widen the dissemination of serious works, can be devised without great difficulty in the form of subsidies, grants, or prizes from the government, foundations, or universities. It is not unfair to finance through taxes the creation of works that benefit not only those who buy them but also many other members of society as well. And such a system can channel as much or more money to the author as would a copyright system, but without simultaneously restricting the dissemination of his work.27 The practicality of administering such a system – when restricted to works of particular social value – is suggested by the fact that many governments and other institutions now award such grants and prizes. In the United States the amount of such support is large when compared with the total revenue that scholarly, technical, or scientific writers receive from copyright royalties, and even in the case of literary works it is significant.28 *288 The second claim for special consideration for authors rests upon an intuitive, unanalyzed feeling that an author’s book is his “property.” But why do we have such a feeling? An intellectual creation differs radically from land and chattels. Since *289 ideas are infinitely divisible, property rights are not needed to prevent congestion, interference, or strife. Nor does the fact that the book is the author’s creation seem a sufficient reason for making it his property.29 We do not ordinarily create or modify property rights, nor even award compensation, solely on the basis of labor expended.30 What may lie at the root of this intuition is a notion that property rights are often created for reasons of efficiency. To provide a man with property rights in land and to give him the right to enjoy profits from the sale of crops may encourage him to care for the land, putting it to its most productive use. Providing him with this right may thereby allow the earth’s resources to satisfy more human wants.31 Such a justification supports copyright protection, however, only if copyright is a more efficient way than other feasible institutional arrangements to satisfy the human want for writings. This is not a moral judgment, but an economic one. And if copyright is more efficient – a question dealt with in section B infra – that fact alone provides a strong reason for adopting it without relying upon analogies to other property rights.32 Another noneconomic claim for copyright asserts that the law is needed to protect important personal interests of the author. *290 33 In the eighteenth century Immanuel Kant urged that an unauthorized copier might garble an author’s work, misrepresent it, or put into circulation a work that the writer did not wish to present to this public at this time. The author might then be put to the considerable trouble of explaining to the public what he in fact wrote or meant by what he wrote.34 Kant probably saw the author’s attempt to communicate with the public as an act of the author with which unauthorized copying could unjustifiably interfere; because such copying might thus unnecessarily inhibit the author’s liberty, he saw a “natural obligation” not to “counterfeit” books.35 One might quarrel with Kant’s argument, for the fact that unauthorized copying may sometimes interfere with an author’s personal interests does not show that it always (or even often) will do so. One suspects that many authors dislike copying because of the injury to their purse, not their pride. But in any event, to accept the need for protecting such personal interests of the author does not require accepting a system of copyright law. In fact, American copyright law does not protect these interests directly. Rather, by forbidding unauthorized reproduction, it provides a protective umbrella beneath which author and publisher can work out, in their contract, safeguards for the author. One might instead give the author’s interests explicit statutory recognition, as is done in many European countries,36 or one might allow common law courts to protect them by applying principles of tort law. Such principles would allow courts to weigh the dignitary interests of the author against the publisher’s or producer’s interest in, for example, publishing anonymously, or altering the text, or inserting TV commercials.37 Tort protection for the author is likely to be at least as generous *291 as that now provided. The “interest balancing” approach of courts in tort cases strongly resembles the way in which courts now interpret unspecified intent in a publishing contract.38 While an author might contract away tort protection, so can he now choose to forego the protection that a contract could provide. In fact, tort protection should prove somewhat more generous, for unlike copyright it would apply to works in the public domain.39 Moreover, tort law in this area, while undeveloped, nonetheless exists. There is tort precedent that prohibits garbling a man’s work and then attributing it to him40 and precedent that provides some protection for a work’s integrity.41 Despite complexities, there seem no serious obstacles to developing a comprehensive system of tort protection. Probably, without copyright, protection for the author’s dignitary rights would still exist, albeit in a new form. * * *In sum, none of the noneconomic goals served by copyright law seems an adequate justification for a copyright system. The system provides a fairly useful way to protect an author’s dignitary rights, and it can provide extra compensation to some writers. Yet alternative legal arrangements can readily be devised to protect the personal nonpecuniary interests of the author. Moreover, the merits of the claim to extra compensation have not been clearly established, nor has copyright proved particularly effective in providing compensation for the “great work” of unusual social value. If we are to justify copyright protection, we must turn to its economic objectives. B. The Economic ArgumentsTo explore the nature and the strength of the economic case for copyrighting books we must ask what would happen if copyright protection were abolished. Would abolition seriously threaten book production? Which books would it threaten most, and why? What is to be gained from abolition? Who would benefit, and how? Our social cost-benefit analysis will not be *292 precise, for there are not enough facts readily available to make exact quantitative estimates. Nonetheless, one can identify the sources of benefit and loss, estimate whether the amounts involved are significant, and draw approximate conclusions about whether copyright protection seems sufficiently valuable to justify not only retaining it, but also extending its scope. Much of what follows will discuss copyright in terms of the protection it provides not to an author, but to a publisher – a protection that flows from the exclusive license to publish that an author normally grants him. Historically the publisher led the fight for laws that allow him to obtain exclusive rights. After the invention of printing the first state grants of exclusive rights – the precursors of modern copyright protection – were made (in Venice in 1495 and in France in 150742) to printers,43 not to authors. In the sixteenth44 and seventeenth45 centuries as well as today46 the publisher has argued that not only the author’s, but also his own, considerable investment in bringing a book to market must be protected. To emphasize the publisher does not slight the author, for as long as a publisher believes he can make money from a book its author can bargain for a share of the publisher’s revenue by threatening to withhold it or go elsewhere.47 This is not to say that publishers’ and authors’ interests always coincide, but where divergences are of importance to the argument, they will be pointed out. The discussion will also distinguish, as publishers do, among the different submarkets within publishing. Textbooks account *293 for the single largest portion (about thirty-five percent) of all publishing revenues.48 They comprise books used in colleges and books used in elementary or high schools (known in the industry as “elhi” texts).49 Tradebooks include the novels and popular nonfiction that ordinarily spring to mind when copyright is discussed. Adult tradebooks (both hardbound and paperback) sold by booksellers account for only about ten percent of all publishing revenue. If we add in children’s books, tradebooks sold through book clubs, and pulp novels,50 the figure rises to about twenty-seven percent. Most works of technical or serious nonfiction (as opposed to popular nonfiction) would not ordinarily be considered tradebooks.51 For purposes of reporting sales figures to trade associations, the publisher of a scholarly book of economic theory, for example, would probably consider it a “college text” if it is used for college instruction and sold primarily to a college audience. Only if it has a large enough appeal to a general reading public to warrant the extra cost of distribution through ordinary trade channels52 might it also be considered a tradebook.53 I shall deal principally with the two largest portions of the book market, textbooks and tradebooks, though much of what I say about textbooks will apply to scholarly nonfiction as well. 1. Would the Abolition of Copyright Protection Seriously Injure Book Production?To abolish copyright protection would allow publishers to compete in the production and sale of an individual title. The proponents of copyright protection would argue strongly that *294 even if such competition sometimes brings the reader books at lower prices, it may often prevent him from obtaining a book at all. A subsequent publisher could copy and sell a particular book at lower costs than those incurred by the initial publisher. If competition immediately forced that book’s price down to the copier’s costs, the initial publisher could not recover his fixed costs or pay the author. The fear of such a result in a world without copyright would, it is claimed,54 discourage publishers from publishing and authors from writing. To evaluate the importance of this economic claim for copyright protection, we must appraise the impact of possible copying on initial publishers’ revenues and the possible harm that could flow from any such revenue loss. (a) Would Competition in the Production of Individual Titles Seriously Threaten Book Publishers’ Revenues? (i) The Copying Publisher’s Cost Advantage. – A copying publisher could produce a copy for considerably lower cost than an initial publisher, for the initial publisher incurs many costs that a subsequent publisher would not have to bear. The initial publisher must edit the book and he must pay various fixed manufacturing expenses, such as those of composing type into pages, making corrections, and designing plates for the jacket. A copying publisher can avoid many of these costs simply by photographing the pages of the completed book and using the photographs for printing purposes. He can also escape a portion of the selling, promotion, and overhead costs that an initial publisher must bear. And he might not pay the author a royalty. Because a copier’s cost advantage will vary considerably, depending upon the title and the number of copies that the book sells, one can more easily discuss the extent of the advantage in terms of specific dollar examples, rather than percentages. The following example is constructed to illustrate the typical55 extent of the cost advantage. The example shows the differing costs to the initial publisher and to a copier of producing an unillustrated 400-page college text that is expected to sell about 5000 copies. It will be sold to booksellers for $4.80. The booksellers will retail it for $6.00. (The example is based upon average cost figures contained in the American Education Publishers’ Institute Annual Survey of the textbook publishing industry for 1968.56 Since textbook publishers accounting for more than ninety percent of all textbooks sold provided detailed cost information for that survey, the average cost figures are reasonably representative.) Fixed Costs	First Publisher	CopierPlant57	$4,500	$900Editorial58	1,440	500Other overhead59	2,880	2,000Selling60	1,000	1,000Promotion61	700	350Total fixed cost	$10,520	$4,750Variable Costs		Manufacturing62	$.80 per copy	$.80 per copyWarehouse and shipping63	.16 “ “	.16 “ “Royalty to author64	.70 “ “	.00 “ “Selling	.20 “ “	.20 “ “Promotion	.14 “ “	.07 “ “Publishers’ total variable cost	2.00 “ “	1.23 “ “Retailers’ markupa1	1.20 “ “	1.20 “ “Total variable cost	3.20 “ “	2.43 “ “Footnotesa1	FNa1. Retailers’ markup is the difference between the $6.00 price and $4.80, which the retailer pays for the book.65 This $4.80 figure includes the publisher’s profit.*296 The copier’s cost advantage is fairly large.66 To produce an edition of 5000 copies would cost him less than two-thirds what it would cost the initial publisher. The result is that the book’s *297 initial publisher must sell 3700 copies before he begins to earn a profit whereas a copying publisher selling the book at the same price will begin to earn a profit after selling 1400 copies. Moreover, if the copier expects to sell 2500 copies, he could set a price to the retailer of $3.20 instead of $4.80 and still earn a small profit. And the retailer could sell the text for $4.40 instead of $6.00 while earning no less than before.67 The copier’s cost advantage may be larger in the case of many complicated textbooks but smaller for many bestselling tradebooks. In general, editing, illustrations, footnotes, tables, and indices raise a book’s fixed manufacturing costs, increasing the copier’s advantage.68 A large number of sales reduces that advantage *298 by spreading fixed costs over a large number of copies.69 The copier’s cost advantage today is somewhat greater than *299 copiers enjoyed in previous generations. In the nineteenth century copiers could not photograph a book’s pages and thus had to bear the heavy cost of composing type for printing; nor did they benefit much from promotional expenditures, for publishers then seem to have advertised much less than now.70 More importantly the copier’s cost advantage may decline somewhat in the near future. With the aid of computers, printers may be able to make printing plates directly from a typed manuscript, eliminating the cost of retyping copy on, for example, a linotype machine.71 Computers may also lower inventory costs by making possible the printing of books “on demand.”72 In any event, one cannot deny the existence of a fairly large cost advantage at present.73 The advantage shows that copying publishers could sell books profitably at prices that will prove unremunerative for initial publishers – a fact that may lead some to copy books soon after they appear on the market. On the other hand, the cost difference does not prove by itself that copying publishers will be able to drive a book’s price low enough soon enough to prevent its initial publisher from earning a profit; nor does it show by itself that several publishers will often attempt to sell the same book. (ii) Countervailing Forces: The Initial Publisher’s Advantages of Lead Time and the Threat of Retaliation. – A book’s initial publisher will ordinarily enjoy several advantages that may partially offset a copier’s lower production costs. For one thing, his book will reach the market first. To obtain this “lead time” in the nineteenth century an American publisher would often agree to pay a popular English novelist, such as Sir Walter Scott, substantial royalties for early proofs of a new novel.74 The *300 proofs would be rushed to America before any other publisher could compete by obtaining a copy of the book’s English edition.75 Books were sold with sufficient speed that a few days lead time could spell the difference between profit and loss.76 In fact lead time was important enough that many English writers earned more from the sale of advance proofs to American publishers (despite lack of copyright protection in America) than from the copyright royalties on their English sales.77 Lead time should still prove advantageous to publishers of tradebooks. Publishers expect a tradebook to begin to return a profit within a few months of publication if it is ever to do so. By the time a copier chooses a book, prints it, and distributes it to retailers, he may be six to eight weeks behind, by which time the initial publisher will have provided retailers with substantial inventories. It is unlikely that a price difference of less than a dollar will lead many retailers or customers to wait for a cheaper edition, for hardbound book customers do not seem to respond readily to price reductions. They are not willing, after all, to wait for a cheaper paperbound edition.78 And, if the copier tries to cut his competitor’s lead by rushing publication, he will incur special costs that will cut into his price advantage. In the case of textbooks, however, lead time, while helpful, should prove less important, for college texts often take a year or more before they begin to earn a profit, and elhi texts may not begin to earn a return for two or three years. Second, the copier will be somewhat constrained by fear of retaliation by the initial publisher. Publishers in the past protected themselves from copying by producing punitive “fighting editions,” which they would sell below the copier’s cost.79 Even *301 if the fear of antitrust action makes the modern publisher hesitate to set a price that is lower than that of the copier,80 the antitrust laws should not prevent him from meeting the copier’s price.81 And at equivalent prices he will benefit from marginal advantages, such as somewhat better quality reproduction,82 more fully-developed channels of distribution, or an ability to proclaim his the “authorized” edition.83 When, for example, a copying publisher recently put out an $8.50 edition of a book about ancient houses, the book’s original publisher responded with a new edition priced at $4.00 and, because of his better established distribution channels, drove the copier from the market. A copying publisher, faced with the problems of “lead time” and “retaliation” is unlikely to see much profit in copying low-volume titles. It seems unlikely, for example, that a publisher thinking of copying the type of tradebook that now sells about 4000 copies, would count on selling the 2000 or more copies needed to earn a profit.84 Nor would a publisher seem likely to compete in the production of a low-volume text as long as its initial publisher is not earning unusually high profits from its sale.85 Indeed, pre-1958 British books, which are often in the public domain in America, are rarely copied – I should think because their market is too small to make copying attractive. *302 A copier is more likely to compete in the sale of those tradebooks (variously estimated at ten to fifteen percent of total tradebooks) that sell more than a few thousand copies. Yet the copier’s cost advantage is smaller for such higher volume books. And with only one or a few copies we may find that price competition is not sufficiently fierce to force initial publishers to incur a loss; “duopoly” or “oligopoly” pricing may leave a profit for all publishers on books worth copying. That competition in the sale of such books is feasible is suggested by existing competition in the sale of popular government documents, such as the Warren Report, or of classics in the public domain, and by the fact that publishers paid popular nineteenth-century English writers substantial royalties despite the lack of copyright protection. Nonetheless, to introduce competition and lower the return that a “best-seller” earns may make tradebook publishers less willing to run the risk of publishing books of unpredictable future popularity.86 Moreover, copiers are likely to compete in the production of popular texts or reference books. These books, unlike “best-selling” novels, may involve heavy fixed costs which the original publisher does not expect to recoup for two or three years or more. Such books present the strongest examples for those who fear that the threat of competition will make publishers hesitate to produce books. Yet publishers will continue to produce them as long as they can earn a reasonable profit on their sale; and copyright would be unnecessary even in this category if it proved possible to assure them this profit by developing currently underutilized marketing techniques for channeling money from reader to publisher – techniques that we shall now discuss. (iii) Other Ways to Sustain Publishers’ Revenue. – If, in the absence of copyright protection, an initial publisher of, say, a text with a long time horizon and large initial expenses fears that copying will destroy his profits, buyers – anxious to obtain the book – may find ways of assuring him enough revenue to operate profitably. Buyers, individually or in groups, might contract to buy the book in advance of publication, before copying is possible. Or organized groups of buyers may place a large enough order for an initial printing (either before or after publication) to assure the publisher a profit. Also, the government could subsidize the publication of certain high cost books. If many, or most, of the potential buyers for a particular type of book can be organized into a group that can negotiate with publishers, the danger that copying will make book production *303 unprofitable diminishes. For if a publisher can convince the group that he needs a substantial “contribution” to cover the costs of production, the group will often prefer to pay the money than to lose the book. A system that relies upon organizing buyers into groups, however, will have several disadvantages. First, to form a buyers’ group will impose administrative costs. Yet such costs are not always unbearable; one need only think of a professional association of physicists using dues to support a physics journal,87 of a group of school districts jointly contracting for the development of a textbook, or even of a book club that provides its members with novels. Second, a buyers’ group may require the delegation of the buying decision to a fairly small number of persons, which some may fear would interfere with individual choice. Yet in some areas, such as textbook buying, that decision is already delegated to a few teachers or to school administrators. Third, one might argue that publishers will often require buyers to pay for books in advance of publication (though a publisher may also sometimes wait until after publication and then try to sell a large batch of books to a group).88 And buyers may prove reluctant to buy a “pig in a poke” – to pay for a book before they can see it. I doubt, however, that this argument is of great importance. Buyers now pay some of the cost of producing unpopular, unsuccessful books when they buy books that are successful, at least to the extent that profits on successful books must compensate for the losses incurred on unsuccessful books if the publisher is to obtain an overall profit sufficient to stay in business. Advance payment should not increase the total price paid for the books that buyers want.89 Fourth, “freeloading” may prevent the group from raising enough money to obtain all of the books it wants.90 In a group where negotiation between members is permitted, each member *304 may find it his interest to understate the value to him of the books that the group is considering buying. If Smith, for example, believes that ninety other members will each put up a dollar for a novel and that the author will create it for ninety dollars, he can claim that the book is worth nothing to him or refuse to join the group and thereby receive the book without paying a royalty to the author. Use of this strategy may lead to a decline in book production, but only when understatement of preferences means that insufficient money can be raised to pay an author or publisher what he needs to create the book. In fact, were negotiations costless, one would expect to find few, if any, cases in which “freeloading” hindered book production. Each member might suspect the others of understating their true preferences and engage in a game of bluff and counter-bluff for a while. But when he sees that, as a result, the book may not be published, he will begin to express his true feelings. Each “understater,” after all, would by definition rather pay more money than do without the book. Of course, negotiation is not costless, and it takes time. Thus, the larger the group and the more difficult it is to negotiate within it, the more likely that a strategy of “understating” will hinder the production of books that the group would like. Still, even large groups can minimize the freeloading problem. Some, for example, may offer advantages that lead most potential buyers to join and pay dues rather than remain outside. Members may receive books before they are reprinted (“pirated”) for others. Or certain books may be available only to organization members because it does not pay to reprint them. Further, many groups, such as universities, foundations, and school districts, may believe it unethical to become freeloaders; their rules or practices may minimize its occurrence. Finally, insofar as buyers’ groups finance the creation of a book, they spread the risk of the book’s failure among a large number of people. Since 1000 men are more willing to risk one dollar each than one man $1000, risk spreading lowers risk costs. And lower risk costs should increase production, thereby offsetting the freeloading problem to some degree.91 *305 Two examples – while speculative – suggest that if there were no copyright protection, buyers of textbooks could organize without great difficulty. The major buyers of elhi texts – representatives of state and local school boards – are comparatively few in number. In fact, the executive director of the textbook publishers’ trade association has pointed out that “twenty-three states adopt elementary textbooks at the state level and eighteen states adopt secondary textbooks in the same manner.”92 If publishers of high cost elhi texts can convince school districts that competition will make publication unprofitable, one would expect that a number of districts would join together and guarantee the publisher sufficient revenue rather than lose the book. Because the number of separate buyers is not large, and because they are public bodies, the freeloading problem should not prove serious.93 Without copyright protection, it may also prove possible to organize college text buyers in a different, but related, way. A publisher contemplating a particularly expensive text could ask college teachers who might use it to make a conditional commitment: they would promise that if they adopt the book, the college will pay, say, an extra five dollars per copy used, for a period of, say, three years. The college would pay for the books when they are used and would recover their cost by charging students. Since publishers now send salesmen through most colleges, obtaining these pledges should involve little extra manpower. Moreover, it may prove easier under such a system (which would allow competition in the publication of individual books) than under the present copyright system (which protects the publisher from direct competition) to prevent text prices from rising far above production costs.94 Colleges will have more bargaining power when *306 publishers seek advance commitments than do students when they buy assigned texts; and college officers may refuse to make advance commitments that they believe will provide the publisher with supernormal profits.95 Competition from second or third printings of other texts should also prove more effective at keeping prices down in a world without copyright protection than in the present one.96 Organizing buyers may prove considerably more difficult in the case of tradebooks, for the number of tradebook buyers is large and there is no existing institution that could easily serve as a focal point for organization. Of course, book clubs might sell advance subscriptions. Many such clubs now pay publishers large sums before a book is published for the right to distribute it.97 And nearly as many hardbound and paperback tradebooks are now sold through book clubs as through other outlets.98 Yet a large market for tradebooks will probably remain outside bookclubs, for some readers will not wish to commit themselves in any way without first seeing the book. Many others buy tradebooks as gifts or on impulse while browsing. The presence of a large, unorganized group of potential buyers suggests that the freeloading problem may prove severe and that we cannot count on buyers’ groups to make up for lost publishing revenue. In sum, without copyright protection organizing buyers to channel needed funds to publishers may sometimes prove difficult but will often prove practical. The ability to organize buyers – along with the initial publisher’s “retaliatory” and “lead time” advantages – should severely limit – even though it may not eliminate – the revenue loss which publishers fear that unrestricted competition threatens. In the absence of copyright protection, one might also consider *307 using government subsidies to maintain publishers’ and authors’ revenues. At present the government subsidizes scientific writing by paying for nearly two-thirds of all research and development work done in America99 and by paying a sizeable portion of the cost of disseminating the results.100 Insofar as the government pays for a book’s creation and subsidizes its dissemination, a copyright fee is not needed to assure production and to charge such a fee will restrict the book’s distribution. Moreover, government subsidies can, and do, take “spillover” effects into account. The government may pay for a work containing a scientific theory, for example, that radiates benefits far beyond the circle of its readers. Because the sales revenue that such a book generates may not cover its costs, its subsidy by the government is necessary and desirable. In principle, substituting government funds for money raised through copyright may prove economically advantageous, for it can secure production without restricting a book’s dissemination. But I doubt that one can devise an administratively practical government financing system that could be substituted on a wide scale for copyright protection without diluting much of this theoretical economic benefit.101 Moreover, increased reliance upon *308 government financing can raise various noneconomic problems. One cannot be certain that the government would prove willing to devote any more money to book production than it does at present. It may prove particularly difficult to persuade Congress to increase appropriations to support novels, for instance, or religious biographies.102 More importantly, increased reliance upon the government for financing book production increases the risk of censorship. As Professor Baumol has pointed out, “ I t is not easy to forget the moment when counsel for the House Un-American Activities Committee investigating the Federal Theatre Project asked Hallie Flannigan: ‘You are quoting from this Marlowe. Is he a Communist?”’103 The considerations are too closely balanced to allow an assertion that government financing constitutes a satisfactory alternative to copyright protection. For this reason, I point to the possibility of government financing as a way to reduce the need for copyright protection, but I hesitate to rely upon it.104 *309 (b) How Badly Is Copyright Needed?The discussion so far indicates that without copyright protection competition should produce no more than a modest fall in publishers’ revenues, and even that decline would normally be limited to the sale of high volume works. Yet some revenue loss is inevitable. Does it provide cause for serious social concern? Answering this question, while necessary, requires considerable speculation. In my view, a modest fall in college text publishing revenue should not cause much concern, for several factors minimize the extent to which any such fall could cause significant harm: If increased competition threatens the royalty income of their authors (who are primarily college teachers105), they may turn from writing texts to scholarly articles or they may devote more time to teaching. In view of the spillover benefits that these other activities provide, one cannot conclude that substituting somewhat more of them for somewhat fewer college texts would prove socially harmful. Moreover, if it begins to appear to the university community that not enough texts are being created, the community could exercise certain nonmonetary pressures (suggestions from deans, professional recognition, etc.) and possibly monetary inducements (extra salary, prizes) to encourage the faculty to spend more of its research time writing texts. Colleges now pay for the creation of texts to some extent by paying salaries to their authors and allowing them time to write. Without copyright protection colleges and their students, considered as a group,106 should be willing and able to spend more money on salaries (if necessary), for they would receive a benefit that is at least equivalent in the form of lower book prices. Finally, many college text publishers now earn profits that are *310 higher than the average level of profits in manufacturing. To some extent they may simply absorb any revenue fall;107 and, if increased competition has produced the fall, book output may tend to expand, not contract.108 Elhi texts provide greater cause for concern. Like college texts they are more likely to produce spillover benefits than many other books. But, unlike college texts, one cannot easily predict that a fall in income would lead their authors (often teams of specialists employed by publishers109) to turn to fields that are of at least equivalent social value. Moreover, elhi text publishers’ profits are, on average, lower than those of college text publishers;110 they are less likely to absorb a revenue loss. Further, unlike the successful best selling tradebook, high volume does not necessarily mean a bonanza for a single author; elhi texts are often written by teams of professional writers who are paid only moderately for work on even a very popular textbook. They are likely to prove sensitive to a cut in income. Thus a fall in the revenues generated by high-cost, high-volume elhi texts (or similar books, such a subscription reference books) may well induce a harmful loss of production. In the absence of copyright protection one would have to rely upon buyers (such as school districts) organizing to minimize the amount of any such loss.111 Tradebooks present something of a middle case, though any conclusion about social harm here must be still more speculative.112 I have already indicated a belief that increased competition will not bring about a revenue loss sufficient to deter *311 publication of high-volume tradebooks.113 I did not mention the fact that publishers will also lose revenue because of increased difficulty in selling subsidiary rights,114 such as movie rights or rights to paperback publication.115 I doubt that the additional loss will prove either terribly large116 or of very significant effect.117 Despite competition and a loss of some subsidiary right revenue, publishers still ordinarily should recover their own costs.118 Although the author’s royalty may fall, he will still be paid – in fact often paid well.119 And there are at least a few general reasons for believing that authors of best sellers will not prove very sensitive to changes in revenue: these authors have incomes that are comparatively large; some have a particular talent for *312 writing; and at least a few may be more interested in literature than money. Thus, many may continue to write despite some loss of income. A more likely victim of a fall in revenue is the tradebook of unpredictable popularity, perhaps an author’s first novel. Since competition will diminish the size of the best seller’s payoff, it will make publication a greater gamble. Publishers may then prove less willing to finance the production of such a book and authors will have to bear more of the financial risks of initial publication.120 Some authors may then prove either unwilling or unable to continue writing. My discussions with publishers, however, lead me to think that the number of such unpredictable manuscripts is not large.121 And one cannot conclude that society is much worse off if some writers, discouraged by longer odds, take up some other occupation.122 Many other jobs open to the potential author also involve risk and innovation without protection from competition or copying,123 and one simply cannot predict whether the marginal writer will produce a more or a less valuable social product in one of these other fields.124 *313 In sum, some high cost, high volume books, such as certain elhi texts, might be significantly affected. But otherwise, on the facts available, it seems that a moderate decline in publishers’ revenues would probably not produce a serious loss of production. Of course, to avoid any loss at all we need only retain and expand copyright, but that, too, has its social costs, and it is to these that we now turn. 2. What Would Be Gained by Abolishing Copyright in Books?(a) Lower Prices and Wider Distribution. – Removing copyright protection should induce competition in the production and sale of relatively high-volume titles. Readers of these books should benefit from lower prices. But, of course, readers would be worse off if competitive prices were so low as to discourage author and publisher from producing the book. In the nineteenth century, opponents of copyright protection pointed to the enormous difference in the price of an English novel in England (where protection existed) and of the same novel in America (where it was not protected) as evidence of the harm that copyright caused the reading public.125 Yet it may have been British protection that guaranteed author and publisher sufficient income to make them relatively indifferent to American prices. While it is no easier today than in the nineteenth century to determine precisely the extent to which abolition would result in lower prices, there is reason to believe that without protection the price of both tradebooks and textbooks would drop, though textbooks by a more significant amount. (i) Tradebooks. – The prices of hardbound best selling novels (and other tradebooks with wide circulation) are those most likely to fall with the abolition of copyright in tradebooks. Even though the cost of producing a copy of a book declines radically as its circulation increases, hardbound editions of widely circulating bestsellers presently are priced no lower than those of other tradebooks. It is not until a paperback edition appears *314 sometime after a book’s initial publication that the cost benefits of wide circulation are passed on to the reader in the form of lower prices. Competition would thus force down the price of bestsellers, while authors and publishers who find the small number of bestsellers they produce very profitable126 would continue to produce them.127 On the other hand, the prices of tradebooks that sell only a few thousand copies – the vast majority of all tradebooks produced –would probably not fall substantially with copyright’s abolition, for it is unlikely that more than one publisher could produce such a book at a profit; thus other publishers are unlikely to compete in its sale, even if they are legally free to do so.128 Lower hardbound bestseller prices, while beneficial to their readers, are unlikely to increase a book’s circulation significantly, for most bestsellers now appear in a low-priced paperback edition some time after their initial publication. It seems unlikely that increased competition can drive the price of most paperbacks down much further; in fact, since binding a book in a paper cover does not significantly change the cost of making it,129 lower paperback prices now probably reflect strong competition between different books or an attempt by the publisher to tap a large market for low-priced books.130 Increased competition to sell copies of the same title may allow some readers who now wait for the paperback edition to buy the book somewhat sooner. Yet the effect of subsequently lower hardbound prices in transferring wealth from author or publisher to reader is likely to be more important than its effect on book production or distribution. (ii) Textbooks. – To remove copyright protection is likely to lead to a more significant fall in the price of textbooks than of tradebooks. Existing competition between textbook titles now *315 seems considerably less effective at holding down prices than competition between novels and other general works. For one thing, popular textbooks appear in low-priced paperback editions with much less frequency.131 For another, textbook publishers’ profits are considerably higher on average than those of tradebook publishers.132 In fact, average college textbook publishers’ profits are at least fifty percent greater than average profits in manufacturing.133 These facts about the industry may be explained in part by noting that many texts are adopted by teachers who are, within limits, fairly insensitive to price –teachers primarily interested in subject matter who do not pay for the text themselves.134 These facts also suggest that there is considerable room for competition in the production and sale of an individual textbook title to force down prices without foregoing production – at least in the case of college textbooks. Lower textbooks prices have particular social value. Even a small increase in the dissemination of a text or scholarly work can yield benefits the value of which far exceeds the cost of the extra books.135 To place books in the hands of more students means greater intellectual stimulation, greater productivity, and *316 increased research.136 Moreover, lower textbook prices, by leaving students, universities, or school boards with more money to spend, can lead to more expenditure upon research and education – a desirable result. Thus, I suspect that price reductions are likely to be both larger in amount and socially more valuable in the case of textbooks than of tradebooks. But in both cases copyright abolition would promote more active competition, with lower prices and somewhat wider circulation, at least for the more popular books. (b) Eliminating the Transaction Cost of Obtaining Permission to Reproduce. –A second burden that a copyright system can impose upon both readers and producers consists of high “transaction costs” – the administrative costs incurred in obtaining permission to copy a work. These costs are not high where there is an organized market in copies: A man who wants a whole book can buy it easily at a bookstore. Nor are they high where the permissions’ requirement is not enforced against the copier, as is now true of much xeroxing. If, however, as some would urge, copyright law is to be strictly interpreted and strongly enforced,137 transaction costs will become significant. A law-abiding user wishing to copy only a portion of a book or article, even though willing to pay the copyright owner enough money to secure his approval, will have to buy a whole book at a store or face the difficulty and cost of contacting the copyright owner, bargaining with him, and arranging for payment. To force him to buy the whole book may be wasteful, for he wishes only a part. To face him with the possibility of high “transaction costs” will also prove wasteful, particularly if it discourages him from xeroxing, for xeroxing may represent the cheapest way (in terms of actual resources expended) of obtaining a copy of what he wants. The only extensive quantitative study of the problem to date indicates that transaction costs of this sort could prove very large indeed. The Committee to Investigate Copyright Problems estimated in 1967 that users would xerox (or similarly reproduce) more than 1.8 billion pages of copyrighted material in 1969.138 The average length of a copied article or text selection *317 is slightly more than eleven pages.139 In the unlikely event that copiers had to obtain permission140 to copy each of these selections separately, doing so might cost $300 million;141 but, even if, as is likely, arranging for permission in batches reduced these costs by ninety-five percent or more, copiers would still face transactions costs of $10 to $20 million, a large cost when one realizes that total royalty payments to authors in 1967 amounted only to between $200 and $300 million.142 We also know that the cost of obtaining permissions in other fields is high. Music copyright clearing houses, for example, spent about $13 million in 1964 to collect and distribute about $57 million.143 National educational television broadcasters estimate that the administrative costs of obtaining copyright permissions for educational television and radio broadcasts (if required under proposed legislation) would equal, on average, $33,000 per station,144 a sum equal to thirteen percent of the average station’s total budget,145 and greater than the total budget of many educational radio stations.146 Moreover, one must remember that the total cost of imposing *318 a permissions’ requirement includes not only these administrative costs, but also the harm resulting because some potential users, willing to pay royalties but unwilling to pay the transactions’ costs, will not obtain the copyrighted item. Much current xeroxing is of texts and other scientific, professional, or technical books and articles. The widespread dissemination of these kinds of works has various spillover benefits similar to those provided by the original distribution of the works copied; to discourage them from being copied is therefore particularly undesirable. Since a strict permissions requirement is not now often enforced against xeroxing copiers, the major harms that the law currently creates in this area flow from the uncertainty and unease of those who fear that they are violating the law. But the presence of court suits and legislative proposals suggest the current situation is unstable.147 The merits of those proposals will be discussed further in Part III.148 (c) Limiting the Market Power of Publishers. – Copyright may also injure the public by allowing publishers selling different books to restrict competition within the industry. Although a copyright restricts competition only between copies of the same title and does not legally interfere with competition between titles,149 the power to accumulate these exclusive licenses to publish may nonetheless, at least in theory, inhibit such competition. This power may, for example, allow a few publishers to build “stables” of popular writers. The presence of such a “stable” may strongly attract other writers with valuable manuscripts and make it more difficult for a newcomer to obtain the promising manuscripts necessary to become established in the publishing industry. If, as a result, new entry becomes difficult, well-established publishers may find that they have obtained the power to raise their prices and to resist authors’ demand for higher royalties. Any such power can curtail book circulation (by raising *319 prices) and may even limit the number of titles produced (by restricting royalties). The high profits that college text publishers report suggest that an “entry barrier” problem may exist in that sector of the publishing industry. Profits that are persistently higher than average, unexplained in other ways,150 are an indication of market power. College textbook publishing also seems to be more heavily concentrated in the hands of a fairly small number of firms than other sorts of publishing.151 One must wonder why more firms have not been attracted into the industry. In another context it has been suggested that the power of the television networks to obtain exclusive licenses to copyrighted programs has made it more difficult for potential rivals to obtain the programming needed to enter that industry.152 While no firm conclusions can be drawn about either industry without a more thorough investigation, college text publishing would seem less competitive than tradebook publishing, where average profits are low and – at least according to publishers – entry is easy.153 Whether or not accumulation of copyrights seriously impedes competition, one might stimulate competition between titles by removing or limiting by law the author’s power to grant an exclusive license.154 Any such limitation would, of course, lessen the protection that the copyright law now affords the publisher, and publishers would loudly protest that without exclusivity they would not be able to recoup the considerable investment needed to bring a manuscript to market. However, conceding for the *320 moment their need to protect this investment, exclusivity is not the only way to do so. They might, for example, agree with the author to a “passover” provision that allows the author to license a second publisher to produce his book provided that the second publisher reimburses the first publisher for part of his initial publication costs.155 In any event, the period of exclusivity might be limited only to the time necessary for the initial publisher to recover those expenses that a second publisher need not bear.156 Limiting exclusive licenses would not necessarily injure authors. Competition in producing and selling an author’s book should increase its circulation. And, as long as authors are paid on the basis of a royalty, increased circulation should mean increased revenue.157 Why, then, do authors not insist upon a nonexclusive license? Many may be unaware of its advantages; others may not have enough bargaining power to insist upon any such arrangement.158 It is also possible that publishers possessing market power pass on to authors some of the excess profits made by restricting entry into publishing. If so, they could truthfully tell authors that returns would fall without exclusivity. Yet no principle of copyright protection entitles either author or publisher *321 to any return flowing from restricting competition between different titles. To limit the use of exclusive licenses, then, should facilitate competition without giving either publisher or author just cause for complaint. C. Interim ConclusionsThe preceding analysis suggests that the case for copyright in textbooks and scholarly works is weaker than that for copyright in tradebooks. To abolish copyright protection would bring more benefit to the textbook than to the tradebook reader: It is more probable that textbook prices now exceed the level needed to induce production; a “permissions” requirement is more likely in the case of textbooks to impose serious transactions costs upon the reader, for readers wish to copy textbooks more often than novels; and there is a much greater possibility that copyright protection helps to restrict competition between textbooks than between tradebooks. Moreover, to abolish copyright protection would threaten tradebook production at least as much as, and perhaps more than, text production. Although tradebook publishers often have leadtime advantages that textbook publishers do not share, tradebook buyers would find it more difficult to organize alternative methods for compensating publishers and authors if needed to avert a fall in production. And a fall in subsidiary right revenue is more significant in the case of tradebooks than texts. Finally, insofar as the copyright question becomes one of simply shifting income between buyers and sellers, one is more likely to be neutral (or to favor sellers) when the buyers are readers of novels than when they are students, school districts, or colleges. The preceding analysis also indicates that the case for copyright in books considered as a whole is weak. It suggests that to abolish protection would not produce a very large or a very harmful decline in most kinds of book production. And abolition should benefit some readers by producing lower prices, eliminating the cost of securing permission to copy, and increasing the circulation of the vast majority of books that would continue to be produced. Of course, it is difficult to consider copyright “as a whole,” for the need for protection varies with the type of book. Without protection the risk of loss of production is greatest among high cost, high volume books the buyers of which could not easily organize an alternative method of payment (such as subscription reference books), while buyers of college textbooks may have the most to gain. This analysis supports those who do not wish to expand copyright protection as the proposed Revision Bill would do. But for several reasons it does not demonstrate a need for drastic revision *322 in present law. First, many of its judgments are necessarily impressionistic, unsupported by confirming empirical evidence. One cannot be certain, after all, that most authors of bestselling novels would continue to write despite a modest cut in their incomes. Nor can one be certain about how easy it will be for buyers to organize alternative methods for paying publishers or authors if necessary to prevent a production loss. Such judgments are put forward tentatively, subject to revision as more information is gathered. Second, much of the harm that copyright threatens may be mitigated without radical change in the law. For example, the law has not impeded xeroxing by imposing a high administrative “permissions” cost because so far it has not been enforced against those who xerox. Third, one must hesitate to abolish protection without some safeguard for the high cost, high volume subscription reference book. Yet any system of protection that attempts to distinguish among different types of books may create legal classifications that are difficult for courts to administer. Fourth, expectations of authors and publishers have been built upon the present system. The “demoralization” costs of undermining these expectations may be considerable.159 In sum, it is difficult to do other than take an ambivalent position on the question of whether current copyright protection – considered as a whole – is justified. One might compare this position with that of Professor Machlup, who, after studying the patent system, concluded, “None of the empirical evidence at our disposal and none of the theoretical arguments presented either confirms or confutes the belief that the patent system has promoted the progress of the technical arts and the productivity of the economy.”160 The position suggests that the case for copyright in books rests not upon proven need, but rather upon uncertainty as to what would happen if protection were removed. One may suspect that the risk of harm is small, but the world without copyright is nonetheless an “undiscover’d country” which “puzzles the will, / And makes us rather bear those ills we have / Than fly to others that we know not of . . . .”161 One can be less ambivalent when considering incremental change in the law. The fact that the basic case for copyright protection of books is weak suggests that a heavy burden of *323 persuasion should be placed upon those who would extend such protection and that we might look favorably upon proposals to reduce it. The matter of such incremental changes will be considered further in Part III. III. THE DOUBTFUL CASE FOR EXTENDING PROTECTION: SEVERAL EXAMPLESWe shall attempt here to apply Part II’s methods and conclusions to several current proposals that would extend the scope of copyright protection: The first would lengthen the protection period; another would bring the xeroxed copy more effectively within copyright’s confines; still another would regulate computer use of copyrighted material and grant copyright protection to computer programs. It should be noted that committees of Congress have recently considered these and other modifications of existing law at length, and that the Copyright Revision Bill currently before the Senate Committee on the Judiciary contains numerous other provisions that would extend protection.162 Those here discussed are not necessarily more important than others embodied in the bill. They have been selected simply to show that further analysis of at least some of the many recent proposals for change is both helpful and necessary. A. LengthDespite Macaulay’s warning that copyright protection “ought not to last a day longer than is necessary for the purpose of securing the good [of increased production],”163 the period of protection has grown steadily over the centuries from two years, to fourteen, to twenty-one, to twenty-eight, to fifty-six.164 The Revision Bill would further extend its term to “life of the author plus fifty years,”165 a period that the Register of Copyrights states would amount to about seventy-six years on average.166 *324 This continual expansion is not surprising. Holders of copyrights about to expire have a financial interest in urging extension. Authors and publishers can lead a legislature to focus on the production and “moral” arguments for protection, while no single interest group is sufficiently affected to focus legislative attention upon the problems of dissemination. An examination of the question, however, suggests that, even if the moral argument is given its due, which is little,167 extension is not justified. The “incentive” or “production” argument for extending the copyright term from fifty-six years to “life plus fifty years” is unconvincing. It must rest primarily upon the case of the “child-caring father” – the man who writes in part to provide a patrimony for his children. It is, of course, conceivable that some prospective Miltons have given up writing after learning that Milton’s daughter was destitute, but it is most unlikely. More probably authors, like others, discount the value of future income, and, when discounted, the present value of a future copyright advantage is small. If, for example, an author knew that his book would sell continuously168 for seventy-six years, an increase from fifty-six to seventy-six years of protection (an increase of more than one-third) would lead to an increase in the present value of a manuscript of only 3.6 percent (assuming a discount rate of five percent). More important, copyright office figures show that only one book in a hundred is in print after fifty-six years.169 And doubtless many of these sell only a few copies. Thus, unless the prospective author has some special reason for believing that his work will survive, to increase protection by twenty years would increase the present value of his manuscript by less than four one-hundredths of one percent, hardly enough to affect his decision to write in the first place.170 *325 Nor would extension provide significant additional incentive for publishers, for they now normally base their publication decision upon an expectation that a book will earn a return within two years (tradebooks), five years (some texts), or at most ten or twenty years (certain reference books).171 Moreover, many texts and reference books can be, and are, revised every few years, allowing the publisher to obtain a new copyright. (In fact, some states will not adopt a text with a copyright more than five years old.172 ) Finally, publishers indicated in conversation that the presence of a copyright does not significantly affect whether or not a “classic” is republished. The fact that a copyright may make its owner more likely to republish tends to be offset by the fact that other publishers will be deterred from republishing a classic by the need to negotiate with, and to secure permission from, the copyright owner. Any additional production inducement that extension might bring is greatly outweighed by the additional harm it will cause. First, as books become classics competition between books becomes less effective at holding down prices. A publisher with exclusive rights to Shakespeare, for example, would find it much easier to raise his price above his costs than a publisher with exclusive rights to an ordinary novel. It is not surprising that among the more valuable of the exclusive printing rights that the King granted in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries were those to print the Bible, the Book of Common Prayer, and various literary classics – not contemporary books.173 To take a more recent example, the popularity of The Forsythe Saga on television has led to a large and unforeseeable demand for copies of Galsworthy’s books. The copyright owner will probably find that he can charge higher than a competitive price for those books, restricting their distribution, even though the prospect of this monopoly return, unlike the one that Galsworthy may have earned in 1920, is unlikely to have influenced Galsworthy himself. Because books that last beyond fifty-six years are more likely to be uniquely valuable, copyright extension makes it progressively more likely that owners can raise their prices above *326 the competitive level, while at the same time progressively less likely that any such power will have influenced the decision to write. Second, as time passes persons wishing to reproduce old articles, books, designs, or other writings find it progressively harder to find the copyright owner to secure permission – particularly when copying is necessary because, for example, a book is out of print. The owner may have moved, gone out of business, sold his copyright, or died.174 Yet to facilitate the copying of old writings is particularly important, for an old writing that someone wishes to copy is likely to have unique merit or to be needed for research or education – areas likely to contain spill-over benefits. Third, to extend copyright protection may restrict competition between copyrighted works and works that would otherwise fall into the public domain. Owners of music copyrights, for example, do not compete vigorously in the sale to radio and television stations of licenses to perform their works. Rather they have combined in organizations, such as ASCAP,175 that normally sell blanket licenses providing a buyer with the right to play all ASCAP works for a single price.176 ASCAP’s prices are controlled by a federal court (as a result of an antitrust action), but its revenues are also limited by the ability of its customers to substitute music in the public domain for the music it licenses.177 To remove music from the public domain by extending copyright protection will make this substitution more difficult;178 it should thereby allow ASCAP to increase its revenues at the expense of its licensees and – insofar as they can pass on this added cost – at the expense of the public. Yet, as noted earlier,179 copyright law is intended only to protect an author from *327 competing sales of his own work; it was not designed to limit competition from the works of others.180 As copyright is extended in time, then, it seems probable that the harm that it causes will grow more rapidly than will the benefits that it produces.181 Attempts to justify extension on grounds other than as an incentive to creation or production seem equally weak. Arguably, for example, extension will help the author or his heirs prevent the garbling of a work. But there is no indication that garbling of “classics” is now a serious problem. And this rather unimportant consideration is overshadowed by the marginally more substantial fear that extension would allow the “authorhating” child to prevent further publication of his parent’s works. Boswell’s son believed his father’s relation with Dr. Johnson demeaning and might have suppressed the famous journal. Indeed, an heir has recently used the power that copyright provides to prevent a distinguished biographer from publishing a work about Kipling.182 It is possible that to substitute a period of “life plus fifty years” from a work’s creation for the present fifty-six years from a work’s publication will avoid the knotty legal problem of determining when publication takes place.183 Yet, as Professor Kaplan *328 has pointed out, the definitional problem is not overwhelming.184 In fact, in its 1961 report on the revision bill, the Copyright Office recommended that the term be based upon the time of dissemination rather than the author’s life because, for those wishing to reproduce a book, “the death date of authors who are not well known would often be difficult to ascertain.”185 The revisors also may have been moved by the plight of a few aged authors or composers attempting to live on royalties from works written in their youth. The aged writer himself presents a more sympathetic case than does his middle-aged orphan. But one need only recognize that such a writer would, for example, have to be over eighty and to have written his last popular work before the age of twenty-four to see that the poor, but doddering, prodigy is an unusual case.186 Nor is it obvious why it should disturb us more to see a writer outlive his fifty-six year copyright than an inventor, his seventeen year patent. If simple income support is desirable, other forms of economic assistance may be more appropriate. A final argument – that extension will bring America into conformity with many foreign countries – is often made, but I have found no clear explanation presented of the advantages of uniformity per se. Some other nations with longer periods of protection have tried to minimize the harm involved through a series of ad hoc devices. England, for example, recognizing the possibility that competition between books may prove less effective at holding down the price of “classics,” provided in 1911 that during the last twenty-five years of the copyright period anyone can reproduce a copyrighted work upon payment of a ten percent royalty to the copyright owner.187 Unfortunately Parliament recently repealed this provision on the ground that it was not used, overlooking the fact that its mere presence – the threat of its use – may have kept book prices lower than they would have been otherwise.188 Certain other countries mitigate the difficulty of contacting owners of old copyrights by providing that a man may reproduce a copyrighted work after he has made a reasonable *329 effort to contact the copyright owner and failed.189 Another country requires payment to extend copyright beyond an initially brief term.190 Such a requirement might provide additional protection for commercially valuable works while allowing those with little value to fall into the public domain, permitting their use for research without impediment. Such measures, while perhaps unnecessary if the term of copyright is relatively short, are surely worth considering to offset the harms of any extension. If, as suggested in Part II, the basic case for copyright protection of books is weak, and the harms that it causes grow more rapidly than the benefits that it yields, should not the Copyright Law Revision propose measures to cut back the term of copyright, rather than to extend it? There is little to suggest any net gain in extending book protection beyond the time horizon that the publisher uses when he decides whether a publication can pay its way, and this time horizon probably does not exceed fifteen to twenty years even for the most complex encyclopedia.191 In any event, extension beyond fifty-six years seems clearly unjustified, particularly without any of the mitigating devices mentioned above.192 B. PhotocopyingCopyright owners have recently sought both legislative193 and *330 judicial194 action that would provide more effective protection against unauthorized photocopying. At present, copyright law is unclear on the subject of the xerox machine. The elusive, judicially created doctrine of “fair use,” according to the Register, would allow “a reasonable portion of a copyrighted work . . . to be reproduced without permission when necessary for a legitimate purpose which is not competitive with the copyright owner’s market for his work.”195 But what is a “reasonable portion?” And when is a purpose “not competitive with the copyright owner’s market?” Most librarians have interpreted this doctrine liberally and have acted (without hindrance) as if it allows a user to make a single copy of the whole of a magazine article or book chapter – at least for research purposes.196 Many publishers, however, hold the more restrictive view that ordinarily only parts of magazine articles can be copied without permission,197 at least if the copying is done by machine rather than by hand.198 The Revision Bill’s language is ambiguous on the question,199 but the House Committee’s report on the Bill seems to adopt the publishers’ view of the law.200 Although photocopying is widespread, it may still prove possible *331 to enforce the publishers’ views – at least if the law is clearly on their side. The CICP survey states that “total annual copying of published material . . . is very largely, but not entirely, library copying.”201 There are roughly 15,500 public school systems with centralized libraries,202 and 22,500 other libraries in the United States.203 It may be possible to sell reproduction permissions to these libraries through a publishing clearinghouse modeled after ASCAP, a music clearinghouse, which now licenses more than 30,000 radio and television stations, nightclubs, and others to perform copyrighted music for profit.204 Such a clearinghouse could grant schools and libraries a “blanket permission” to reproduce all the works of its author and publisher members in return for a payment, which it would then distribute among those members. Of course, nearly eighty-five percent of ASCAP’s revenues come from 4500 to 6000 radio and television stations,205 but, similarly, most reproduction of copyrighted works is probably done in the 2900 college libraries206 or the 900 public libraries that serve populations of more than 35,000.207 To show that enforcement of the publishers’ views may be *332 feasible, however, does not show that it is desirable. Indeed, it is difficult to believe that the need for enforcement is sufficiently great to warrant the considerable costs, harms, and complexities that would be involved. A clearinghouse, while far less costly than a system of individual negotiation,208 would still involve heavy administrative costs. In 1967 ASCAP spent roughly $9 million to collect gross domestic revenues of $49 million.209 A publishing clearinghouse – as does ASCAP – would have to sell licenses, monitor unlicensed copiers to detect violations, bring infringement actions where piracy is found, make random samples to determine the relative frequency with which works are copied, and distribute collected income to numerous writers and publishers.210 It is difficult to believe that a publishing clearinghouse would cost any less to operate than ASCAP; and, unless it is prepared to ignore infringements by smaller libraries and school systems, it might cost considerably more. At the same time, it seems unlikely that a publishing clearinghouse could collect as much revenue as ASCAP. Although the number of licensees may be roughly comparable, it is doubtful that schools and libraries would be willing, or could afford, to pay as much for the right to make photocopies as commercial radio and television stations pay for the right to play copyrighted music.211 *333 The fact that revenues may not be large does not mean that permissions’ prices will prove harmless. It is entirely possible that a xeroxing charge high enough to yield a moderate revenue will at the same time discourage a sizable amount of photocopying, depriving users of the considerable benefits that the xerox machine can bring.212 One cannot rely upon competition between publishers to hold down the price of permissions, for “blanket licenses” and joint price determinations make competition between publishers in the sale of reproduction rights most unlikely.213 In fact, if publishers can agree upon the price they will charge for this right, they may be able to extract much of the direct economic benefit that educational xeroxing promises its users. This anticompetitive problem is now worthy of note, it may become far more serious in the future,214 and there seems no very satisfactory way of mitigating its effects. Experience with ASCAP, which since 1941 has been regulated under an antitrust *334 decree,215 suggests that to require a clearinghouse to offer individual, as well as blanket, licenses does little to promote competition, for buyers rarely seek individual licenses.216 To ask an administrative agency or a court to regulate or to supervise clearinghouse prices invites complex and nearly irresolvable disputes over what price is “fair.”217 And to have Congress provide by statute for a compulsory license at a fixed fee may embed what soon becomes an arbitrary sum into the law for many years.218 In sum, to adopt the publishers’ views on “fair use” would impose high transaction costs and the threat of prices that would discourage some photocopying. At the very least it would require school and library users, who are typically in need of money themselves, to spend a large amount of money to administer a system the sole function of which is to transfer an additional large amount of money from the same schools and libraries (or their users) to authors and publishers. Surely before adopting these views a substantial showing should be made that these expenditures are in fact needed to maintain writing production. The analysis of book production previously made, however, must raise doubts that additional copyright protection is needed *335 to avoid the loss of frequently copied works – which, for the most part, are scholarly journals.219 In many cases photocopying will not seriously interfere with journal revenues, either because it stimulates greater interest in the journal220 or because publishers can make up for a decline in the number of subscriptions by raising their prices.221 After all, if xeroxing allows libraries to buy fewer subscriptions, it also makes those few relatively more valuable. Moreover, many groups of buyers will be able *336 to find other ways of channeling more money to journals whose existence is financially threatened. Many such journals are published or supported by learned societies, universities, or foundations, which either consist of, or represent, the very persons who subscribe to these journals and who benefit from being allowed to copy freely.222 Such communities of subscribers should not find it difficult to increase society dues or the university’s subsidy, if necessary. Doing so should ordinarily not hurt them financially, for, considered as a community, they would pay no more totally for the journal than they do at present, and they would receive from it at least as much benefit. And groups of academics and professionals should be sufficiently sensitive to the need for journals in their fields to minimize “freeloading” difficulties. Finally, an increase in the already enormous subsidy that the government provides for disseminating information is at least a theoretical possibility,223 though whether the photocopying problem by itself requires an increase in the subsidy is doubtful.224 Of course, the considerations just mentioned are not sufficient to guarantee that all journals will continue in business. Yet, the loss of a few would seem preferable to spending $10 million or more on an administrative scheme designed to impose a charge on *337 photocopying that may inhibit the dissemination of copyrighted works. It would seem sensible, then, to embody the librarians’ views, rather than the publishers’ views, in the copyright law. Congress might simply provide that the copying of periodical publications and extracts from books by an individual for his own use does not violate the copyright law provided that he does not make more than one copy within a certain period of time. Such an exemption would eliminate the law’s existing ambiguity about “fair use” – a confusion which invites unfairly selective attempts at enforcement and which may breed disrespect for the copyright law in other areas.225 To guard against the risk that advancing technology and changing economic circumstances will make this exemption obsolete, Congress might provide a means for adjusting periodically the boundaries of the “fair use” exemption. The Revision Bill proposes the creation of a commission to investigate copyright law and new technology.226 Such a commission might more extensively examine particular sorts of copying and particular types of copyrighted material. It could gather facts allowing it, for example, to estimate transactions costs, to determine the state of competition between works, and to assess possible alternative methods for securing publishing revenue. The commission might thereby judge with some accuracy the costs of increasing or rolling back copyright protection. It should recommend changes in the scope of “fair use” to Congress, and were it to become permanently embedded in copyright law, its recommendations might take effect subject to congressional veto.227 *338 C. Research with ComputersThe discussion of photocopying shows how we can shape an exemption to minimize the burden of copyright protection once we have identified the more serious costs that accompany copyright. A similar, but more simple, example of the ease with which an appropriate exemption can be tailored to deal with high transactions costs arises from the use by many scientists and scholars of copyrighted material with computers for research purposes. From the point of view of copyright law, research with a computer can differ from research without it in an important respect, namely, the computer operator may have to make a “computer-readable” copy of the material for insertion into the machine, and the machine may make another copy of the material when it prints out responses. The scientist without a computer may simply refer to a copyrighted book of chemical equations as he does his work; yet the scientist who does the same work with a computer will have to insert the equations into the computer first, and the computer may also print some of them when it delivers its answers. Unless this copying is held to constitute “fair use,” the Copyright Revision Bill would require individual scientists and scholars to contact copyright owners for permission when they use copyrighted material along with a computer. Scientists see the “permission” requirement as imposing a time-consuming, cumbersome, and expensive burden that would threaten research by imposing delay. Professor Anthony Oettinger, Director of the Harvard University Computing Center, testified that, under the provisions of the Revision Bill:228I would have not only to acquire and evaluate materials but, in each instance, before experimenting with them, seek out the owner of a copyright, if any, make formal requests for permission to use the material, pay royalties if any are due, etc. All this before any material could actually be used and, in fact, before I could find out whether or not the material was useful! The delays, the frustrations and the chaos inherent in such a process now seem so formidable that if the bill were passed in its present form I would be tempted to return to the safer occupation of copying out manuscripts with a goose quill pen.On the other hand, publishers fear that to relax copyright requirements in this area would allow computers to be used as *339 libraries in the sense that one copy, fed into a computer, will serve many users who might otherwise have bought their own copies.229 A “permissions” requirement, by allowing publishers to extract a fee for the computer use, would help to safeguard their revenues.   It is not difficult, however, to write an exemption that would help the scientist, while minimizing harm to the publisher. Such an exemption would allow individuals and small groups to store copyrighted material in computers and to retrieve it without the owner’s permission provided that the storage and retrieval form part of a project of research or private study in which the individual or group is engaged. The “small group” limitation prevents the computer from serving as a library. At the same time the smaller the group the more likely that the administrative costs of securing permission are high in relation to the need for the copyrighted material. Thus the exemption focuses on that area where copyright’s harms are greatest and benefits smallest.230 *340 Moreover, in setting what must be an essentially arbitrary upper limit to the size of a “small group,” Congress should not fear to be generous to the scientist. Most of the copyrighted material that will be stored in computers in the near future will consist of books of tables, manuals of equations, compilations of abstracts, and other highly scientific and technical works.231 For reasons pointed out at p. 336 above, in the case of such works a decline in the average number of copies that each work sells is not likely to interfere significantly with their production.232 D. Computer ProgramsThe Revision Bill would provide copyright protection for the first time for computer programs.233 Those familiar with computers *341 know that a program is basically a set of instructions that set a computer’s “switches” so that it can perform a particular function;234 others may be helped by a simple example. A programmer who wants a computer to calculate how much social security tax to deduct from each worker’s pay check will perform two operations. First, he must decide what basic steps the machine will have to go through to make the calculations. He may decide, for example, that the machine will read from each individual’s pay card his number, his cumulative social security taxes paid for the year, and his weekly pay; that the machine will then determine if further social security tax is owed and, if so, how much; and that the machine will finally print out the worker’s number, the amount of his tax, and his remaining weekly pay. This list of “basic steps” – written out in somewhat greater detail – may be considered the program’s “algorithm” or “fundamental idea,” which can be embodied in a “flow chart.”235 *342 Second, the programmer will translate the algorithm into a set of instructions written in symbolic form that can be inserted into the machine. The machine automatically uses these instructions to set its switches to carry out the desired task. The instructions constitute the “program.”236 Different programs may embody the same algorithm, just as different words can embody the same idea.237 Programs (also called “software”) can be divided very roughly into three sorts. First, systems programs control the basic operations of the computing machinery (also called “hardware”). Such a program would, for example, govern the translation of our social security program from a language that vaguely resembles *343 English into “machine language” that directly controls the computer’s switches. Second, application programs govern the solution of particular problems. Our social security program is one example; a program that allows a computer to operate a steel mill would be another. Most application programs are tailored to fit the needs of individual users. Third, general purpose application programs (or “utility programs”) are adaptable to meet the needs of many different computer users. A “debugging” program – one that enables the machine to locate mistakes in other programs – is one such, for it can be used by numerous computer operators despite their differing particular interests.238 To create complex programs, which (unlike our social security program)239 may contain thousands of statements, can cost thousands of dollars.240 Much of this expenditure pays for the time-consuming job of translating algorithm into finished product.241 Yet to copy a finished program may require only a xerox machine.242 Presumably for these reasons, copyright protection – which in principle should prohibit unauthorized copying of the program but allow free use of the algorithm or “idea”243 – has been advocated as desirable.244 (And, for the moment, I shall assume that the details of a meaningful form of copyright protection could be worked out.)245 *344 This article, however, has made the general claim that a large difference between the cost of producing a work initially and the cost of copying is not alone sufficient to show that copyright protection is desirable. And the case of computer programs is no exception. One should become suspicious of the need for protection at present upon learning that the software industry is currently burgeoning without the use of copyright246 and that a 1964 announcement by the Copyright Office that it would accept programs for registration has led to the submission of only 200.247 One’s suspicions should be further confirmed by the following considerations. First, much (but not all) systems software is now, and should continue to be, created by hardware manufacturers and sold along with their hardware at a single price.248 Many of these programs will work properly only with a particular brand of machine. Both *345 these factors diminish the probability that a copier can sell copies of such software profitably. And a recent survey conducted by the Independent Data Corporation (IDC) indicates that development of systems software in the next few years should account for twenty-five percent of all software development costs.249 Second, most application programs (which, according to the IDC, account for about sixty percent of all program development costs)250 are tailored to suit individual customer needs.251 In fact, more than half of all computer time is accounted for by programs that computer users develop within their firms for their own use.252 It is unlikely that copying such programs will significantly interfere with their development. Third, those application programs (including general purpose application programs) that are usable generally now ordinarily are sold, not directly “off the shelf,” but in “packages.” They may come accompanied with copyrighted documentation manuals and a promise that the seller will install the program, iron out its “bugs,” update it as advances are made, and make adjustments from time to time to keep it compatible with others in the machine.253 The cost of these supporting items may equal or exceed the program’s initial cost.254 These facts suggest that a computer user is often buying services and expertise as much as he is buying a particular computer program. And as long as this is so, the competitive advantage that a copying seller obtains through the legal right to copy the program itself may be small. In any event, the copier’s need to develop this support independently should often provide the initial programmer with sufficient lead time to recover his development costs. Within the next decade, however, pressures for greater program uniformity and compatibility as well as technological advances may greatly increase the number of generally usable programs sold “off the shelf.”255 And independent software companies that may produce such programs are just beginning what may be a period of rapid growth.256 Yet whether copyright protection *346 is needed to induce and to support these developments is far from clear. For one thing, the creators of some such programs should be able to recover their development costs by selling copies at fairly high prices to a small number of buyers. In fact, generally usable programs are now often sold to individual users at prices approximating ten to twenty percent of their development costs.257 It should therefore not prove difficult to organize a fairly small group of buyers to pay for the creation of a program they desire.258 More importantly, the next decade or two should see the rapid expansion of “time-sharing” systems, which allow many (perhaps thousands) of subscribers to use a single central group of computers to which they are connected by communications wires.259 For our purposes, it is sufficient to note that such systems can organize automatically large numbers of program users for negotiating purposes (and the members of these systems may do much programming themselves). Copyright protection is not likely to be needed if it is relatively easy to identify, organize, and bargain with groups of potential program buyers. Further, hardware manufacturers – whose programs now account for the use of more than one-third of all computer time260 – may continue to develop some generally usable application programs even if copying threatens recovery of their development costs. Those costs are likely to account for only a very small percentage of their total revenue,261 and they may view some of this expense as promotional, since the development of generally usable programs may increase demand for computers. Finally, educational institutions or the government may have a hand in developing certain generally usable programs – particularly those such as “debugging” programs which serve other than purely commercial purposes. The development of such programs is not likely to be affected significantly by the absence of copyright protection. These considerations cast substantial doubt on the present need for computer program copyright protection and indicate that *347 the case for future need is quite speculative. They show that any such need will focus upon (1) generally usable programs, (2) produced by independent software companies, (3) selling “off the shelf” (4) at low prices (5) to large numbers of widely dispersed buyers. They also suggest that further empirical study might help to measure the real depth of that need by examining possible alternative methods of paying for such program development. Such a study might, for example, help to determine whether the market for “generally usable off the shelf” programs will be a large one, and whether it will consist of a relatively small number of time-sharing networks or whether it is more likely to resemble the market for tradebooks. In the face of this uncertain need it would seem unwise to extend copyright protection to virtually all computer programs – as the Revision Bill would do –for such an extension may cause considerable harm. For one thing, if computer producers form the habit of copyrighting nearly all their creations (as they may well do once such protection is clearly established), a serious “transaction cost” problem will arise. Many computer users, particularly those belonging to “user groups” or subscribing to “time-sharing” systems, frequently copy portions of the programs of others. In doing so, they may make modifications to improve them or to make them suitable for related uses. As in the case of xeroxing, to obtain permission to copy parts of programs from owners outside the user’s own group or time-sharing system will often prove prohibitively expensive and time-consuming. To enforce a “permissions” requirement, in fact, may lead many of these users to borrow only the algorithm of the program part and recreate the program itself, or – what is more likely –to make various changes in the program to avoid the appearance of copying. The former of these alternatives will waste valuable computer and operator time, and the latter, to quote Professor Oettinger, may have “disastrous consequences ... on standardization in electronic data processing.”262 Moreover, as in the case of books, the freedom from direct competition that copyright provides may allow some program creators to charge prices considerably higher than needed to recover development expenses. The fact that creators of many generally usable programs can now recover their costs after only five or ten sales suggests that this problem may become significant.263 Further, difficulties in determining whether one program is a “copy” of another may make protection difficult for courts to administer. On the one hand, a court that holds trivial variations *348 sufficient to avoid liability would risk emasculating the law. On the other, a court too ready to find “copying” (one, for example, that might predicate liability on “substantial similarity” plus “access to the copyright owner’s work”) may lead program creators to avoid using even the algorithm of another’s program, to write new programs in unusual ways to lessen the risk of “similarity,” or to make “similarity searches” through program libraries to which they have had access. One suspects that skillful allocation of burdens of proof may lessen the temptation to engage in these wasteful activities,264 but one cannot be certain, for neither Congress nor the courts have addressed themselves to the problem. Finally, there are anticompetitive possibilities lurking in the fact that a vast number of copyrights would be owned by IBM, which creates a large percentage of all computer programs.265 One must wonder, for example, whether, without protection, smaller hardware or software firms would not find it easier to use parts of IBM programs in their efforts to compete with IBM.266 This sketch of possible harms is not meant to be definitive, but simply to warn against any headlong rush to provide computer programs with protection – particularly fifty-six or seventy-five years of copyright protection – that would apply to virtually all types of computer programs regardless of need.267 This is not to suggest, however, that extending protection through patent268 *349 or trade secret269 law is any more desirable. Rather, before extending *350 protection to an industry the size of which may soon dwarf book publishing, a far more careful and extensive canvass of that industry to determine probable need should be made, with particular emphasis upon alternative methods of financing the development of computer programs. And, if need is shown, efforts should be made to tailor protection to minimize the harms that copyright may cause.270 In any event, on the basis of the existing literature on the subject271 and the very brief discussion of the matter before Congress,272 it seems fair to conclude that the advocates of copyright protection have not yet made their case. IV. FINAL CONCLUSIONSPart II of this article has argued that the general case for copyright protection is weak. Its arguments may prove useful in reaching various specific conclusions about proposed incremental changes in the copyright law. In any event, those arguments lead to at least four policy recommendations:1. The period of copyright protection is at present too long and should not be extended beyond fifty-six years. 2. The law should allow individuals to make single copies of magazine articles and extracts from books without obtaining permission to do so from copyright owners. The details of this exemption can be determined by the study commission which the Revision Bill would establish. *351 3. The law should allow individuals and small groups to store copyrighted material in computers and to use it for research purposes without obtaining permission from copyright owners. 4. Computer programs should not receive copyright protection at the present time.  The discussion in Part II also has several general implications for the formulation of copyright policy. First, it shows that the argument most frequently advanced to support copyright protection is shallow: To demonstrate that an initial publisher’s costs are high, while reproduction costs are low, is not sufficient to establish the need for copyright protection. Rather, one must examine other factors – the probable speed and ferocity of competitive response, the presence of subsidies, the ability of buyers to channel revenue to publishers and authors in the absence of protection – before it can be said that copyright protection is needed. Second, Part II points out that copyright is very much of a mixed blessing. It can lead to prices higher than necessary to secure production; it can impose large transactions costs; it can even help a firm or group of firms to limit competition throughout an industry. Third, Part II indicates that the desirability of copyright protection will vary from one type of “writing” to another. One must know facts about the particular industry involved before one can accurately weigh the various costs and benefits associated with copyright protection. The generally unsatisfactory nature of the congressional hearings on the Copyright Revision Bill underlines the importance of these conclusions. The hearings reveal little critical analysis of industry claims that protection is needed. They show little awareness of the possible harms of extending protection. Rather, the data amassed at the hearings is unsifted, often irrelevent, fact and opinion, and many critical facts about affected industries are missing. Of course the hour is late; the revisors have long been hard at work. Yet one cannot escape the conclusion that more empirical work and more thoughtful analysis is needed before the Copyright Law is significantly revised.