 PROFESSOR Hudson has demonstrated that the Anglo-American lawyer ought not to treat the advisory opinion as a novel, let alone an outlawed, instrument in the administration of law, if the nature and needs of international controversies render resort to it appropriate. On the other hand, our national experience makes it clear that it is extremely dangerous to encourage extension of the device of advisory opinions to constitutional controversies, in view of the nature of the crucial constitutional questions and the conditions for their wise adjudication. Professor Hudson has, therefore, generously allowed me to append a caveat to his article.   Since Reconstruction days, the acutest controversies which have come before our Supreme Court, and increasingly will come, cluster around the Commerce Clause and Due Process.1 These issues concern, in effect, a delimitation between the powers of the Nation and those of the States and the eternal conflict between the freedom of the individual and his control by society. The stuff of these contests are facts, and judgment upon facts.2 *1003 Every tendency to deal with them abstractedly, to formulate them in terms of sterile legal questions, is bound to result in sterile conclusions unrelated to actualities. The reports are strewn with wrecks of legislation considered in vacuo and torn out of the context of life which evoked the legislation and alone made it intelligible.3 These are commonplaces. But they are the heart of the matter of American constitutional law. A failure scrupulously and persistently to observe these commonplaces jeopardizes the traditional American constitutional system more than all the loose talk about “usurpation.”4   Another commonplace, indispensable to the effective working of our constitutional system, is rigorous regard in practice for the avowed theory that legislation is for the legislature, that the court does not sit in judgment upon the wisdom or fairness or utility of legislation. The Supreme Court is not a House of Lords with revisory power over legislation, although conservative scholars have suggested that the Supreme Court frankly assume the function implicit in some of its decisions.5 As part of the ritual of traditional theory, the Supreme Court professes to defer greatly to the legislature.6 Such deference is not merely a gesture of courtesy. It is the formulation of a basic truth in the distribution of governmental powers. For behind every act of legislation is the judgment of one of the coördinate branches of the government — no less than the courts bound by oath to support the Constitution — that what it has done is within the *1004 Constitution.7 To this consideration our great master of constitutional law, James Bradley Thayer, attached the utmost weight.8 It is of profound importance if heeded, because the controversy between legislature and courts, in issues which matter most, is not at all a controversy about legal principles, but concerns the application of admitted principles to complicated and often elusive facts. The difference, then, in the crucial cases is apt to resolve itself not really to a difference about law, but to differences in knowledge of relevant facts and inferences drawn from such facts.   The bearing of all this upon resort to advisory opinions on modern constitutional questions is evident. The vice of the proposal, variously made, that opinions of the Supreme Court in advance of legislation would be “constructive,” lies in the assumption, too often made by American political scientists, that constitutionality is a fixed quantity. A consideration of the history of the Due Process Clauses, of the persistent refusal of the Supreme Court to define “due process” or to generalize, of its empiric method of “pricking out a line in successive cases,” in a word a study of the two thousand odd cases which have spun meaning out of the Delphic phrase “without due process of law,” ought to furnish sobering reflection.9 Concepts like “liberty” and “due process” are too vague in themselves to *1005 solve issues. They derive meaning only if referred to adequate human facts. Facts and facts again are decisive. They are either present-day facts, or ancient facts clothed by the universalizing instinct of man to look like principles. Dean Pound has pointed out that concrete cases under the Due Process Clause are decided not by taking anything out of the Constitution but by putting Adam Smith into it.10 Not the least of constitutional controversies resolve themselves into the pressure of new facts against the resistance of inadequate or exploded facts persisting as legal assumptions. The reports furnish too abundant illustrations of what Huxley called the tragedy of a fact killing a theory.   The advisory opinion deprives constitutional interpretation of the judgment of the legislature upon facts, of the effective defence of legislation as an application of settled legal principles to new situations, and of the means of securing new facts through the process of legislation within the allowable limits of trial and error. Legislation is an appeal to “judgment from experience as against a judgment from speculation.”11 Unless we are to embrace fatalism, legislation to a considerable extent must necessarily be based on probabilities, on hopes and fears, and not on demonstration. To meet the intricate, stubborn, and subtle problems of modern industrialism, the legislature must be given ample scope for putting its prophecies to the test of proof. But to submit legislative proposals to the judicial judgment, instead of the deliberate decision of the legislature, is to submit legislative doubts instead of legislative convictions. The whole focus of the judicial vision becomes thereby altered.   Moreover, legislation is thus deprived of its creative function. The history of modern legislation is rich in proof that facts may be established in support of measures although not previously in existence. The accidents of litigation may give time for the vindication of laws which a priori may run counter to deep prepossessions or speculative claims of injustice.12 The whole *1006 milieu of advisory opinions on proposed bills is inevitably different from that of litigation contesting legislation. However much provision may be made on paper for adequate arguments (and experience justifies little reliance) advisory opinions are bound to move in an unreal atmosphere. The impact of actuality and the intensities of immediacy are wanting. In the attitude of court and counsel, in the vigor of adequate representation of the facts behind legislation (lamentably inadequate even in contested litigation) there is thus a wide gulf of difference, partly rooted in psychologic factors, between opinions in advance of legislation and decisions in litigation after such proposals are embodied into law. Advisory opinions are rendered upon sterilized and mutilated issues. Let any one, for instance, compare the adverse opinions of the Massachusetts Supreme Court upon the constitutionality of municipal coal and wood yards with the opinion of the Supreme Court sustaining such legislation;13 the adverse opinions of the Massachusetts Court on prohibition of trading stamps with the opinion of the Supreme Court sustaining such legislation;14 the adverse opinion of the Massachusetts *1007 Court on the State’s power to provide for dwelling houses with the opinion of the Supreme Court sustaining such legislation.15 These are samples taken from the court in which, presumably, advisory opinions have been rendered under the most favorable circumstances.   Perhaps the most costly price of advisory opinions is the weakening of legislative and popular responsibility. It is not merely the right of the legislature to legislate; it is its duty. Let legislatures inform themselves as best they can; but the burden of decision ought not to be shifted to the tribunal whose task is the most delicate in our whole scheme of government — the power of the judiciary to set limits to legislative activity within those ultimate but vague bounds which are undefined and a priori undefinable. The grave dangers which are involved in failing to restrict very closely the exercise of the political function implicit in the power of our judiciary to disregard unconstitutional legislation16 have been put in abiding words of warning by James Bradley Thayer in his Life of Marshall:   “The tendency of a common and easy resort to this great function, now lamentably too common, is to dwarf the political capacity of the people, and to deaden its sense of moral responsibility. It is no light thing to do that.   “What can be done? It is the courts that can do most to cure the evil; and the opportunity is a very great one. Let them resolutely adhere to first principles. Let them consider how narrow is the function which the constitutions have conferred on them, — the office merely of deciding litigated cases; how large, therefore, is the duty entrusted to others, and above all to the legislature. It is that body which is charged, primarily, with the duty of judging of the constitutionality of its work. The constitutions generally give them no authority to call upon a court for advice; they must decide for themselves, and the courts may never be able to say a word. Such a body, charged, in every State, with almost all the legislative power of the people, is entitled to the most entire and real respect; is entitled, as among all rationally permissible opinions as to what the Constitution *1008 allows, to its own choice. Courts, as has often been said, are not to think of the legislators, but of the legislature, — the great, continuous body itself, abstracted from all the transitory individuals who may happen to hold its power. It is this majestic representative of the people whose action is in question, a coördinate department of the government, charged with the greatest functions, and invested, in contemplation of law, with whatsoever wisdom, virtue, and knowledge the exercise of such functions requires.   “To set aside the act of such a body, representing in its own field, which is the very highest of all, the ultimate sovereign, should be a solemn, unusual, and painful act. Something is wrong when it can ever be other than that. And if it be true that the holders of legislative power are careless or evil, yet the constitutional duty of the court remains untouched; it cannot rightly attempt to protect the people, by undertaking a function not its own. On the other hand, by adhering rigidly to its own duty, the court will help, as nothing else can. to fix the spot where responsibility lies, and to bring down on that precise locality the thunderbolt of popular condemnation. The judiciary, today, in dealing with the acts of their coordinate legislators, owe to the country no greater or clearer duty than that of keeping their hands off these acts wherever it is possible to do it. For that course — the true course of judicial duty always — will powerfully help to bring the people and their representatives to a sense of their own responsibility.”17   It must be remembered that advisory opinions are not merely advisory opinions. They are ghosts that slay.18    37 HVLR 1002 