 From time to time Calvert Magruder has reminded me with innocent malice, the only kind of which he is capable, that he took none of my three courses. He could not thus hide from me his light under a bushel. On a hunch, limited as my awareness of his qualities then was, I selected him as the first law clerk to Mr. Justice Brandeis. It was a good guess — the art of life, we are told, is accurate guessing on inadequate data — for the Justice said of him: “Among all my law clerks Magruder was the best critic I had.” The reaches of this encomium, considering the gifted men who were Magruder’s successors! It not only implied his intellectual acumen, for Mr. Justice Brandeis did not leave much scope for the critic. It also conveyed Magruder’s charming faculty of easy human relations. The overwhelming personality of the Justice intimidated most people and made them self-consciously reticent.   Over the years Magruder has amassed vast experience in the diversified legal fields he has tilled and through the versatile roles he has played in the law — law teacher, Government lawyer and administrator, judge. Wherever he found himself he performed with distinction. These professional opportunities and responsibilities have made for depth and breadth. But he has, to an extent rare in men, happily retained the pith and savor of what he was as a lad. What so delighted the austere Mr. Justice Brandeis in the young Magruder was his spontaneous recognition that in the realm of the mind there is no hierarchical deference.   To trace men’s qualities to their roots is usually an illusory enterprise. Yet I am tempted to believe that Magruder’s uninhibited way of dealing with intellectual issues derives from his *1202 strong sense of relevance and, paradoxical as it may sound, his modesty. If reasoning does not hold water, what difference does it make who employs it? If writing is infelicitous, such it appears, no matter who the author, to the critical eye of Magruder, himself a telling and engaging writer. While Magruder’s modesty leads to self-depreciation, it does not generate intellectual confusion. It makes him as exacting of others as of himself in dealing with intellectual issues. While no one could have a higher regard for the office of judge, he does not confuse the occupant with the office. The clarity of his mind and the modesty of his character make him dominantly aware of humility as perhaps the prime judicial requisite, the quality of rigorous self-criticism and of not confounding a desired result with the judicial process, formulated in Mr. Justice Holmes’ well-known remark, “The first duty of a judge is to remember that he is not God.”   This is very far from implying that Magruder represents the slot-machine theory of adjudication which holds that one can find an answer for every legal problem in the law reports, or even in the best of legal writings, or by means of merely syllogistic reasoning. Cardozo’s admirable discussion of the creative aspect of a judge’s work did not come to Magruder as revelation. He has not been afraid to pioneer within the limits allowable to a judge for pioneering. He represents that happy blend of judicial caution and valor about which Sir Frederick Pollock has written, and he has achieved it, I believe, because of his happy blend of a sense of relevance and modesty.   Barring the cases which present issues that indisputably call for review by the Supreme Court and that very large number of cases in which review is out of question, the disposition of petitions for certiorari involves competing considerations that cannot be resolved by a fixed calculus. Naturally enough, an important factor in the exercise of the Court’s discretionary judgment is the weight of the opinion below, particularly where the problem is new and may fruitfully await the maturing process of further consideration in the lower courts. When petitions for certiorari from decisions in which Judge Magruder wrote have come before the Court, such has been the quality of his opinions, the persuasiveness of his reasoning, and the confinement of decision to its proper scope, that on more than one occasion one has been led to say to his brethren, “Were we to bring the case here, could we improve on Magruder?”   *1203 What he says gains weight from the way he says it. The attractiveness of his writing does not only derive from the quality of his style. His opinions irradiate what may fairly be called moral qualities, particularly candor and complete absence of pretense in all its manifestations, from stuffiness to spurious learning. We all love Dr. Johnson for his well-known act of penance at Litchfield, but how many of us imitate his example when occasion offers. Thus, one is delighted to find this opening sentence in an opinion by Judge Magruder: “This case illustrates the perils of misunderstanding incident to the drafting of a judicial opinion,” followed by a charming exposition of his own fallibility. (A different example of edifying and illuminating candor is a recent elucidation by him of that normally dreary problem, what constitutes a “final decision” for purposes of appealability under federal jurisdictional acts.) If I were to summarize the quality of Magruder’s writing, I would say that he writes as he talks. It is the colloquial talk of a cultivated man. The effect is, as Professor Plucknett describes Maitland’s writing, “one of gay intimacy with a lively companion.” I must hasten to disavow a seeming comparison of Magruder with Maitland lest I offend his distaste for excessive praise.   The edict of Time precluded my having had the good fortune of being one of Magruder’s law clerks. Happily, I have been the beneficiary of the inspiring lessons which his law clerks took away from their experience with him. A goodly number of my law clerks came to me after they had been with him whom they invariably called “The Judge.” I was subjected to the invigorating discipline of having my labors tested by the touchstone of judicial qualities which those Magruder products so rightly admired in him.   When kind friends gave me a send-off from Cambridge to Washington, I ventured to say, in a moment of self-revelation, that the criterion by which I would care to have my judicial work judged would be the extent to which it reflected the standards appropriate for a member of the Harvard Law School Faculty. Judge Magruder superbly meets this test. Happily, he is not retiring from judicial work. He will become a judge-at-large, fertilizing, as it were, the entire federal judicial system and giving to it those conspicuous judicial gifts which for twenty years he has contributed to the First Circuit. *1204 It is not easy to write of the work of a friend whose warmth and modesty have regularly reduced to silent admiration, as though from afar, one’s frequent impulses to applaud. But to mark a retirement which is as regrettable as it is well-earned after twenty years of distinguished judicial service, one may summon the hardihood to ask Calvert Magruder to endure while one attempts the notation, out of a great abundance, of some of those qualities which have made of him what one hopes always to find in a judge.   