 Two hundred years ago a great man was born who indisputably is the “one alone” to be chosen “if American law were to be represented by a single figure.” John Marshall was the chief architect “of a new body of jurisprudence, by which guiding principles are raised above the reach of statute and State, and judges are entrusted with a solemn and hitherto unheard-of authority and duty.” (HOLMES, COLLECTED LEGAL PAPERS 270 (1920).) Such is the verdict of one whom so qualified a critic as Mr. Justice Cardozo deemed probably the greatest intellect in the history of the English-speaking judiciary.   Unlike other great pioneers in the law, Hardwicke in equity, Mansfield in commercial law, Stowell in prize law, Holmes in torts, the essential heritage of Marshall, because of the very nature of constitutional law, does not lie in specific precepts, definite rules more or less easy of application in new circumstances. Of his opinions it is peculiarly true that their “radiating potencies” go far beyond the actual holdings of the decisions. See . The tendencies propelled by his opinions give him his unique place in our history; through them he belongs among the main builders of our nation. Although he led an important diplomatic mission and was not an otiose Secretary *218 of State, the decisive claim to John Marshall’s distinction as a great statesman is as a judge. And he is the only judge who has that distinction. It derives from the happy conjunction of Marshall’s qualities of mind and character, the opportunities afforded by the Court over which he was called to preside, the duration of his service, and the time in which he served — the formative period in the country’s history.   When Jefferson heard that Hamilton was urging John Marshall to enter Congress, he wrote to Madison, on June 29, 1792: “I am told that Marshall has expressed half a mind to come. Hence I conclude that Hamilton has plyed him well with flattery & sollicitation, and I think nothing better could be done than to make him a judge.” (6 THE WRITINGS OF THOMAS JEFFERSON 95-97 (Ford ed. 1895).) How ironically Fate outwitted Jefferson in his desire to sidetrack Marshall to what Jefferson conceived to be the innocuous role of a judge. (I am indebted to Professor Julian P. Boyd for calling my attention to this letter as well as for its exact phrasing, based on the recipient’s copy in the Madison Papers, Library of Congress.)   When Marshall came to the Supreme Court, the Constitution was still essentially a virgin document. By a few opinions — a mere handful — he gave institutional direction to the inert ideas of a paper scheme of government. Such an achievement demanded an undimmed vision of the union of states as a nation and the determination of an uncompromising devotion to such insight. Equally indispensable was the power to formulate views expressing this outlook with the persuasiveness of compelling simplicity.   It is shallow to deny that general ideas have influence or to minimize their importance. Marshall’s ideas, diffused in all sorts of ways, especially through the influence of the legal profession, have become the presuppositions of our political institutions. He released an enduring spirit, a mode of approach for generations of judges charged with the awesome duty of subjecting the conduct of government and the claims of individual rights to the touchstone of a written document, binding the Government and safeguarding such rights. He has afforded this guidance not only for his own country. In the federalisms that have evolved out of the British Empire, Marshall’s outlook in constitutional adjudications has been the lodestar. Unashamedly I recall the familiar phrase in which he expressed the core of his constitutional philosophy: “it is a constitution we are expounding.” *219 . It bears repeating because it is, I believe, the single most important utterance in the literature of constitutional law — most important because most comprehensive and comprehending.   I should like to follow James Bradley Thayer in believing that the conception of the nation which Marshall derived from the Constitution and set forth in M’Culloch v. Maryland is his greatest single judicial performance. It is that, both in its persuasiveness and in its effect. As good a test as I know of the significance of an opinion is to contemplate the consequences of its opposite. The courage of , is not minimized by suggesting that its reasoning is not impeccable and its conclusion, however wise, not inevitable. I venture to say this though fully aware that, since Marshall’s time and largely, I suspect, through the momentum of the experience which he initiated, his conclusion in Marbury v. Madison has been deemed by great English-speaking courts an indispensable, implied characteristic of a written constitution. Holmes could say, as late as 1913, “I do not think the United States would come to an end if we lost our power to declare an Act of Congress void.” But he went on to say, “I do think the Union would be imperiled if we could not make that declaration as to the laws of the several States. For one in my place sees how often a local policy prevails with those who are not trained to national views and how often action is taken that embodies what the Commerce Clause was meant to end.” (HOLMES, COLLECTED LEGAL PAPERS 296 (1920).) One can, I believe, say with assurance that a failure to conceive the Constitution as Marshall conceived it in M’Culloch v. Maryland, to draw from it the national powers which have since been exercised and to exact deference to such powers from the states, would have been reflected by a very different United States than history knows. Marshall surely was right when he wrote, a month after he rejected the argument for Maryland: “If the principles which have been advanced on this occasion were to prevail, the Constitution would be converted into the old Confederation.”   Marshall’s intrinsic achievements are too solid and his personal qualities too homespun to tolerate mythical treatment. It is important not to make untouchable dogmas of the fallible reasoning of even our greatest judge, and not to attribute godlike qualities to the builders of our nation. Does it not border on the ludicrous that by questioning whether Marshall was an original thinker *220 Holmes nearly barred his own way to the Supreme Court? So deeply had uncritical reverence for Marshall’s place in our national pantheon lodged itself in the confident judgment of President Theodore Roosevelt. (See 1 SELECTIONS FROM THE CORRESPONDENCE OF THEODORE ROOSEVELT AND HENRY CABOT LODGE 517-19 (1925).) As though one should look among even the greatest of judges for what Holmes called “originators of transforming thought.” (HOLMES, COLLECTED LEGAL PAPERS 269 (1920).) I venture to suggest that had they the mind of such originators, the bench is not the place for its employment. Transforming thought implies too great a break with the past, implies too much discontinuity, to be imposed upon society by one who is entrusted with enforcing its law.   Marshall’s creativeness has from time to time been discounted by attributing the ground he broke in his opinions to the arguments of the great lawyers who appeared before him, especially Webster. The latter was no mean appreciator of his own performance, but an examination of his argument in , hardly confirms his boast that Marshall’s opinion “was little else than a recital of my argument.” (HARVEY, REMINISCENCES AND ANECDOTES OF DANIEL WEBSTER 142 (1877).) Powerful counsel no doubt have impact upon the strongest court, and probably never in the history of the Supreme Court has such a galaxy of talent appeared before it as in Marshall’s day. Not the least distinction of a great judge is his capacity to assimilate, to modify, or to reject the discursive and inevitably partisan argument of even the most persuasive counsel and to transform their raw material into a judicial judgment. So it was with Marshall.   Again, it is not to be assumed that what Marshall wrote was wholly the product of his own brain, freed from infusion of his brethren’s thinking. In his day there was the closest intimacy among the judges. It is inconceivable that they did not discuss their cases in their common boardinghouse. A man of Marshall’s charm and power was bound to make himself deeply felt among his brethren. But the assumption that he dominated his colleagues leaves out of reckoning the strong personalities among them. Story had the deepest devotion to Marshall, but he also had views and vanity. Johnson’s opinions reveal tough-mindedness, abounding intellectual energy, and a downright character. Likewise, we may be sure that Bushrod Washington was no mere *221 echo. And so one may be confident in inferring that the novelty of the issues, the close social relations of the Justices, the ample opportunities they had for discussion among themselves, precluded Marshall’s pathbreaking opinions from being exclusively solo performances. Then as now, constitutional decisions were the outcome of the deliberative process, and as such, more or less composite products. But their expression is individual. The voice of the Court cannot avoid imparting the distinction of its own accent to a Court opinion. In the leading constitutional cases Marshall spoke for the Court. But he spoke. The prestige of his office, the esteem which he personally aroused, the deference he evoked, enabled Marshall to formulate in his own way an agreement collectively reached. Thus, in his exposition of the Commerce Clause, Marshall indulged in observations not only beyond the necessities of the cases but outside the demands of his own analysis.   To slight these phases of his opinions as dicta, though such they were on a technical view, is to disregard significant aspects of his labors and the ways in which constitutional law develops. There can be little doubt that Marshall saw and seized his opportunities to educate the country to a spacious view of the Constitution, to accustom the public mind to broad national powers, to counteract the commercial and political self-centeredness of states. He was on guard against every tendency to continue treating the new Union as though it were the old Confederation. He imparted such a momentum to his views that the Court and eventually the country were moved in his general direction, beyond his own time and into our own.   The role that Marshall played in the evolution of our nation ought, I should think, to make it difficult for those who believe that history is reducible to laws, to fit him into their schemata. Surely the course of American history would have been markedly different if the Senate had not rejected the nomination of John Rutledge to succeed Jay as Chief Justice; if the benign Cushing, a Federalist of different composition from Marshall’s, had not withdrawn after a week and had continued as Chief Justice till his death in 1810; if Ellsworth’s resignation had come later; if John Adams had persuaded Jay to return as Chief Justice; or if some readily imaginable circumstance had delayed Ellsworth’s replacement till John Adams was out of the White House so that the new Chief Justice would have been a Jeffersonian. (That it would have *222 been Spencer Roane is an unsubstantiated tradition.) John Marshall is a conspicuous instance of Cleopatra’s nose.   This does not make me an adherent of the hero theory of history. If I may quote Mr. Isaiah Berlin: “Historical movements exist, and we must be allowed to call them so. Collective acts do occur; societies do rise, flourish, decay, die. Patterns, ‘atmospheres,’ complex interrelationships of men or cultures are what they are, and cannot be analysed away into atomic constituents. Nevertheless, to take such expressions so literally that it becomes natural and normal to attribute to them causal properties, active powers, transcendent properties … is to be fatally deceived by myths. … There is no formula which guarantees a successful escape from either the Scylla of populating the world with imaginary powers and dominions, or the Charybdis of reducing everything to the verifiable behavior of identifiable men and women in precisely denotable places and times.” (BERLIN, HISTORICAL INEVITABILITY 16 (1954).) Certainly on this occasion it is appropriate to assert with emphasis that John Marshall was not the fated agency of inevitable economic and social forces to make his decisive contribution in the shaping of this country’s destiny.   Temperament, experience, and association converged to his outlook in judicial action. Even more truly than Gibbon could say of himself, “the Captain of the Hampshire grenadiers … has not been useless to the historian of the Roman Empire” can it be claimed that Marshall’s experience at Valley Forge was not without decisive influence in the work of the great Chief Justice. (THE AUTOBIOGRAPHIES OF EDWARD GIBBON 190 (Murray ed. 1896).) Ties of friendship and effective participation in the struggle for the Constitution confirmed his national outlook. Local government had become associated in his mind with the petty bickerings of narrow ambition and dangerous indifference to rights of property and social cohesion. This revealed the need of a strong central government to whose authority the states must be obedient. Subordination of the states to the authority of the national government within the scope of its powers was the deepest article of his faith, political and judicial. Experience of men and affairs in the Virginia House of Burgesses, in Congress, as a diplomat, and as Secretary of State, doubtless reinforced a temperament to which abstract theorizing was never congenial. He reflected the literary tradition of his time in his partiality for abstract language to support concrete results. But he had a hardheaded appreciation *223 of the complexities of government, particularly in a federal system. His deep instinct for the practical saved him, on the whole, from rigidities to bind the changing future. Uncompromising as was his aim to promote adequate national power, he was not dogmatic in the choice of doctrine for attaining this end. And so at times, conspicuously in Gibbons v. Ogden, his views appear to reflect crosscurrents of doctrine, ambiguously expressed. In one striking instance, , he did little more than decide, stating hardly any doctrine but hinting enough to foreshadow, certainly in direction, the vitally important accommodation between national and local needs formulated more than twenty years later in .   There is a rather supercilious tendency to speak disparagingly of Marshall’s work on the Court when dealing with lawyers’ law. In contrast to Jefferson’s view, which continues to have echoes, of regarding Marshall’s associates as his tools in the constitutional cases, praise of his judicial statecraft is sometimes used to emphasize his inferiority in nonconstitutional adjudications. Story, Bushrod Washington, William Johnson, Brockholst Livingston are counted as his superiors. Joseph Story, to be sure, carried great learning, even if not always lightly. Disregard of Bushrod Washington’s judicial qualities bespeaks unfamiliarity with Judge Hopkinson’s and Horace Binney’s estimates of him, and Professor Donald G. Morgan’s recent book on Mr. Justice Johnson ought to bring wider appreciation of one of the strongest minds in the Court’s history. But none of Marshall’s associates will suffer depreciation by recognizing his performance in cases that are lawyers’ law. After all, this constituted nine-tenths of the Court’s business during the thirty-four years of Marshall’s magistracy. He was not a bookish lawyer, though he was no stranger to books. He could, as wise judges do, make them his servants. He eschewed precedents, such as were then available, in his opinions for the Court. But he showed mastery in treatment of precedents where they had been relied on for an undesirable result. By way of example, I avouch his dissent in The , against the strong views of Washington, J., supported by Story. Likewise, he was not overwhelmed by the parade of Story’s learning in The , when such learning led to a harsh view of neutral rights. Though he respected Lord Stowell as “a very great man,” he cut free from that master of *224 prize law, deeming him to have a leaning, strong even if unconscious, in favor of captors.   As good an insight as any into the quality of Marshall’s intellect is afforded by Francis Walker Gilmer, a brilliant Virginian contemporary of high promise. Marshall’s mind, he wrote, “is not very richly stored with knowledge, but it is so creative, so well organized by nature, or disciplined by early education, and constant habits of systematick thinking, that he embraces every subject with the clearness and facility of one prepared by previous study to comprehend and explain it.” (GILMER, SKETCHES, ESSAYS, AND TRANSLATIONS 23-24 (1828), quoted in 2 BEVERIDGE, THE LIFE OF JOHN MARSHALL 178 (1916).)   Charged as I have been with opening a conference to commemorate the two-hundredth anniversary of the birth of John Marshall, I surely have been obedient to my duty in speaking of him. But once I leave the secure footing of that well-trodden ground, what else can be pertinent to an opening address of a three-day conference on Government Under Law, systematically planned with definite parts appropriately assigned to learned inquirers into the perplexities of the problems summarized by this great theme?   Insofar as I have not already exhausted my function, my further relation to the resplendent show to follow is like unto that of the Greek chorus. In view of the preoccupation of this conference, of course I want to keep strictly within the law of my assignment. Accordingly, I have briefed myself on the proper task of the Greek chorus. While in early days the destiny of the chorus was “involved in that of the principal characters,” when the Attic stage was at its highest perfection the chorus was “thrown much further into the background,” and appears “not as a participant in the action, but merely as a sympathetic witness.” The chorus was, so my authority continues, “removed from the stress and turmoil of the action into a calmer and more remote region, though it still preserves its interest in the events upon the stage.” This clearly is my cue, rather than the later still more receding role of the chorus, whereby it “begins to lose even its interest in the action” and “sings odes of a mythological character, which have only the remotest connexion with the incidents of the plot.” (HAIGH, THE ATTIC THEATRE 320-21 (2d ed. 1898).)   There is little danger that in my remaining observations I shall be intruding on the fertile areas of inquiry that belong to the distinguished speakers whom we are to hear these three days. I hope *225 I shall be equally successful in not straying outside my confining judicial curtilage. One brought up in the traditions of James Bradley Thayer, echoes of whom were still resounding in this very building in my student days, is committed to Thayer’s statesmanlike conception of the limits within which the Supreme Court should move, and I shall try to be loyal to his admonition regarding the restricted freedom of members of that Court to pursue their private views.   Marshall’s significance could not be more fittingly celebrated than by scrutinizing, which is the aim of this conference, the state of “government under law,” more particularly under the legal system to which Marshall so heavily contributed, a hundred and twenty years after he wrote his last opinion. Could he listen to these proceedings, nothing would be bound to strike him more than the enlarged scope of law since his day. He would, of course, think of law as legally enforceable rights. For, while he occasionally referred to “natural law,” it was not much more than literary garniture, even as in our own day, and not a guiding means for adjudication. He would have sympathized, as other judges have, with Sir Frederick Pollock’s remark, “In the Middle Ages natural law was regarded as the senior branch of divine law and therefore had to be treated as infallible (but there was no infallible way of knowing what it was).” (1 HOLMES-POLLOCK LETTERS 275 (Howe ed. 1941).) Marshall would be amazed by the interpenetration of law in government, because during his whole era he was concerned with the Constitution as an instrument predominantly regulating the machinery of government, and more particularly, distributing powers between the central government and the states. The Constitution was not thought of as the repository of the supreme law limiting all government, with a court wielding the deepest-cutting power of deciding whether there is any authority in government at all to do what is sought to be done.   Thus, the gravamen of the attack in the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions against the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798 was that they infringed on the rights of the states and were promotive of “a general consolidated government.” It deserves to be recalled that even Jefferson attributed to the states the power which he denied to the federal government. “Nor does the opinion of the unconstitutionality and consequent nullity of that law [the Sedition Act],” he wrote to Abigail Adams, “remove all restraint *226 from the overwhelming torrent of slander which is confounding all vice and virtue, all truth and falsehood in the US. The power to do that is fully possessed by the several state legislatures.... While we deny that Congress have a right to controul the freedom of the press, we have ever asserted the right of the states, and their exclusive right, to do so.” (I am indebted for the exact text of this letter, dated September 11, 1804, to the kindness of Professor Julian P. Boyd, in one of whose forthcoming volumes of “The Papers of Thomas Jefferson” it will duly appear in its entirety.)   The only two Marshallian constitutional opinions that concern individual rights as such, , and the , rather than the delimitation of power between two governments, are, in the perspective of time, not of great importance. This came to pass partly because of easy legislative correction, partly because the doctrine of strict construction devised in the , took the sting out of the decision of the Dartmouth College Case. Moreover, insofar as the latter case forbade legislative transfer of the property of the college to the trustees, it is a safe assumption that the Due Process Clauses would condemn such an attempt. (See Chief Justice Doe’s opinion in ; Doe, ; and Jeremiah PROC. N.H.B. ASS’N 287, 302 (n.s. 1901).)   The vast change in the scope of law between Marshall’s time and ours is at bottom a reflection of the vast change in the circumstances of society. The range of business covered by Marshall’s Court, though operating under a written Constitution, was in the main not very different from the concerns of the English courts, except that the latter dealt much more with property settlements. The vast enveloping present-day role of law is not the design of a statesman nor attributable to the influence of some great thinker. It is a reflection of the great technological revolution which brought in its train what a quiet writer in The Economist could call “the tornado of economic and social change of the last century.” Law has been an essential accompaniment of the shift from “watchdog government” — the phrase is George Kennan’s — to the service state. For government has become a service state, whatever the tint of the party in power and whatever time-honored *227 slogans it may use to enforce and promote measures that hardly vindicate the slogans. Profound social changes continue to be in the making, due to movements of industrialization, urbanization, and permeating egalitarian ideas.   With crude accuracy I have just summarized the situation in the countries of the English-speaking world, about which alone I may speak. But when these transforming economic and social forces got under full swing in the United States, lawyers and courts found available in the Fourteenth Amendment resources for curbing legislative responses to new pressures. That Amendment was gradually invoked against the substance of legislation and not merely to support claims based on traditionally fair procedure.   I have thus reached the slippery slope of due process. But not even to take a glance at it in a reconnaissance, however sketchy, of government under law, would indeed be to play “Hamlet” without Hamlet.   It has been frequently stated that when a question arises in due course of a litigation, whether a constitutional provision has been infringed, the established courts of justice “must of necessity determine that question.” (See Lord Selborne in The Queen v. Burah, 3 App. Cas. 889, 904 (P.C. 1878), quoted approvingly by Lord Wright in James v. Commonwealth of Australia,  A.C. 578, 613 (P.C.); see also Swart v. de Kock,  3 So. Afr. L.R. 589, 601-02, 611.) This is only qualifiedly true regarding our Constitution. Thus, the explicit provision requiring one state to surrender to another a fugitive from justice (art. IV, § 2, cl. 2) is “merely declaratory of a moral duty” and is not, because of the subject matter, enforceable in the courts. . Likewise, the “guarantee to every state” of “a Republican Form of Government” must, because of the subject matter, look elsewhere than to the courts for observance. . There are not a few other instances in which judicial relief was barred because “political questions” were deemed to be involved.   It is not for me to find the common denominator of these judicial abstentions, or to give the contour and content of what questions are “political,” in the sense of precluding judicial examination. But I do venture to believe that no judge charged with the duty of enforcing the Due Process Clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, and the Equal Protection of the Laws Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, can free himself from the disquietude *228 that the line is often very thin between the cases in which the Court felt compelled to abstain from adjudication because of their “political” nature, and the cases that so frequently arise in applying the concepts of “liberty” and “equality.”   In his first inaugural Jefferson spoke of the “sacred principle” that “the will of the majority is in all cases to prevail.”1 Jefferson himself hardly meant all by “all.” (See Jefferson’s answers to Démeunier’s first queries, reprinted in 10 THE PAPERS OF THOMAS JEFFERSON 18 (Boyd ed. 1954).) In any event, one need not give full adherence to his view to be deeply mindful of the fact that judicial review is a deliberate check upon democracy through an organ of government not subject to popular control. In relation to the judiciary’s task in the type of cases I am now discussing, I am raising difficulties which I think must in all good conscience be faced, unless perchance the Court is expected to register a particular view and unless the profession that the judiciary is the disinterested guardian of our Constitution be pretense.   It may be that responsibility for decision dulls the capacity of discernment. The fact is that one sometimes envies the certitude of outsiders regarding the compulsions to be drawn from vague and admonitory constitutional provisions. Only for those who have not the responsibility of decision can it be easy to decide the grave and complex problems they raise, especially in controversies that excite public interest. This is so because they too often present legal issues inextricably and deeply bound up in emotional reactions to sharply conflicting economic, social, and political views. It is not the duty of judges to express their personal attitudes on such issues, deep as their individual convictions may be. The opposite is the truth; it is their duty not to act on merely personal views. But “due process,” once we go beyond its strictly procedural aspect, and the “equal protection of the laws” enshrined in the Constitution, are precisely defined neither by history nor in terms. It deserves to be noted that so far as gaining light from *229 pertinent data on the intention of Congress on specific issues in formulating the Fourteenth Amendment, the Supreme Court found that, “At best, they are inconclusive.” . This finding of darkness was reached not for want of searching inquiry by Court and counsel.   No doubt, these provisions of the Constitution were not calculated to give permanent legal sanction merely to the social arrangements and beliefs of a particular epoch. Like all legal provisions without a fixed technical meaning, they are ambulant, adaptable to the changes of time. That is their strength; that also makes dubious their appropriateness for judicial enforcement. Dubious because their vagueness readily lends itself to make of the Court a third chamber with drastic veto power. This danger has been pointed out by our greatest judges too often to be dismissed as a bogey. Holding democracy in judicial tutelage is not the most promising way to foster disciplined responsibility in a people. See  (concurring opinion).   It is, of course, no longer to be questioned that claims under the Fourteenth Amendment are subject to judicial judgment. This makes it all the more important to realize what is involved in the discharge of this function of the Court, particularly since this is probably the largest source of the Court’s business. It is important, that is, fully to appreciate the intrinsic nature of the issues when the Court is called upon to determine whether the legislature or the executive has regulated “liberty” or “property” “without due process of law” or has denied “equal protection of the laws”; to appreciate the difficulties in making a judgment upon such issues, difficulties of a different order from those normally imposed upon jural tribunals; and, not least, to appreciate the qualifications requisite for those who exercise this extraordinary authority, demanding as it does a breadth of outlook and an invincible disinterestedness rooted in temperament and confirmed by discipline. Of course, individual judgment and feeling cannot be wholly shut out of the judicial process. But if they dominate, the judicial process becomes a dangerous sham. The conception by a judge of the scope and limits of his function may exert an intellectual and moral force as much as responsiveness to a particular audience or congenial environment.   We are dealing with constitutional provisions the nature of which can be best conveyed compendiously by Judge Learned *230 Hand’s phrase that they “represent a mood rather than a command, that sense of moderation, of fair play, of mutual forbearance, without which states become the prey of faction.” . Alert search for enduring standards by which the judiciary is to exercise its duty in enforcing those provisions of the Constitution that are expressed in what Ruskin called “chameleon words,” needs the indispensable counterpoise of sturdy doubt that one has found those standards. Yesterday the active area in this field was concerned with “property.” Today it is “civil liberties.” Tomorrow it may again be “property.” Who can say that in a society with a mixed economy, like ours, these two areas are sharply separated, and that certain freedoms in relation to property may not again be deemed, as they were in the past, aspects of individual freedom?   Let me sharpen these difficulties by concreteness. In , Mr. Justice Harlan floated an oft-quoted epigram, but in a few short years he did not apply it, proving once more that sonorous abstractions do not solve problems with intractable variables. See , and its influence on . Thinking of “equality” in abstract terms led Mr. Justice Harlan to be blind to the meaning of “yellow-dog contracts” as a serious curtailment of liberty in the context of antiunion strategy, ; Olney, Discrimination Against Union Labor — Legal?, 42 AM. L. REV. 161 (1908), and to be equally blind to the fact that important differences between industry and agriculture may justify differentiation in legislation. See , and compare with .   Take the other side of the medal. It is too easy to attribute judicial review resulting in condemnation of restrictions on activities pertaining to property to “economic predilection” of particular judges. The Due Process Clauses extend to triune interests — life, liberty, and property — and “property” cannot be deleted by judicial fiat rendering it nugatory regarding legislation touching property. Moreover, protection of property interests may, as already indicated, quite fairly be deemed, in appropriate circumstances, an aspect of liberty. Regulation of property may be struck down on assumptions or beliefs other than narrow economic views. And so we find that Justices who were the most tolerant of legislative *231 power dealing with economic interests have found in due process a protection even against an exercise of the so-called police power. It was true of Mr. Justice Holmes in , and of Mr. Justice Brandeis in .   Let us turn to the much mooted “clear and present danger” doctrine. It is at least interesting that that phrase originated in one () of a series of cases in which convictions for heavy sentences were sustained against defendants who had invoked the right of free speech in circumstances which led Mr. Justice Holmes to characterize them as “poor fools whom I should have been inclined to pass over if I could.” (2 HOLMES-POLLOCK LETTERS 11 (Howe ed. 1941).) “Clear and present danger” thus had a compulsion for Mr. Justice Holmes against recognizing Debs’ freedom to an utterance that in retrospect hardly seems horrendous. . Would it carry equal compulsion with other judges? One can be confident, in any event, that Mr. Justice Holmes would not have deemed his doctrine a bar to the power of a state to safeguard the fair conduct of a trial for a capital offense from being thwarted by intrusion of utterance from without. See  (denying cert. to ). There is the best of reasons for believing that Mr. Justice Brandeis would not have carried his natural devotion to the place of freedom of speech in a democracy to such a doctrinaire denial of an equally indispensable need — trial in court, not outside it — of a free society.   Concerned as I am with the evolution of social policy by way of judicial application of Delphic provisions of the Constitution, recession of judicial doctrine is as pertinent as its expansion. The history of the constitutional position of the right to strike affords an illuminating instance. After invalidating a law withdrawing the use of the injunction against strikes, , the Court came to conceive of the conduct of a strike as an aspect of the constitutionally protected freedom of discussion, , but soon retreated from this position and recognized that picketing, as the weapon of strikes, is not merely a means of communication, . No matter how often the Court insists that it is not passing on policy when *232 determining constitutionality, the emphasis on constitutionality and its fascination for the American public seriously confound problems of constitutionality with the merits of a policy. Industrial relations are not alone in presenting problems that suffer in their solution from having public opinion too readily assume that because some measure is found to be constitutional it is wise and right, and contrariwise, because it is found unconstitutional it is intrinsically wrong. That such miseducation of public opinion, with its effect upon action, has been an important consequence of committing to the Court the enforcement of “the mood” represented by these vague constitutional provisions, can hardly be gainsaid by any student of their history.   Much as the constitution makers of other countries have drawn upon our experience, it is precisely because they have drawn upon it that they have, one and all, abstained from including a “due process” clause. They have rejected it in conspicuous instances after thorough consideration of our judicial history of “due process.” (See Mendelson, Foreign Reactions to American Experience With “Due Process of Law,” 41 VA. L. REV. 493 (1955).) It is particularly noteworthy that such was the course of events in framing the constitution of India. Sir B. N. Rau, one of the most penetrating legal minds of our time, had a major share in its drafting, and for the purpose he made a deep study of the workings of the Due Process Clause during an extensive stay here.   Is it the tenor of these remarks that courts should have no concern with other than material interests, that they must be unmindful of the imponderable rights and dignities of the individual which are, I am sure I shall have your agreement in saying, the ideals which the Western world holds most high? Of course not. Recognition of them should permeate the law, and it does so effectively even in courts that do not have veto power over legislation. They constitute presuppositions where parliaments have not spoken unequivocally and courts are left with the jural task of construction in its fair sense.   Thus, while the Chief Justice of Canada could say, “We have not a Bill of Rights such as is contained in the United States Constitution and decisions on that part of the latter are of no assistance,” he reached the same result in Saumur v. City of Quebec,   as a matter of construction, that was reached under the Due Process Clause in . Again, only the other day the Supreme Court *233 of Canada rejected the view that the mere claim of immunity by a Minister of the Crown from producing in court a document relevant to its proceeding is conclusive. It deemed such a claim “not in harmony with the basic conceptions of our polity.” The reason given by Mr. Justice Rand deserves to be quoted: “What is secured by attributing to the courts this preliminary determination of possible prejudice is protection against executive encroachments upon the administration of justice; and in the present trend of government little can be more essential to the maintenance of individual security. In this important matter, to relegate the courts to such a subserviency as is suggested would be to withdraw from them the confidence of independence and judicial appraisal that so far appear to have served well the organization of which we are the heirs.” Regina v. Snider,  Can. Sup. Ct. 479, 485-86. So, likewise, the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of South Africa ruled that when an act conferred autocratic powers upon a Minister — it was the Suppression of Communism Act — it must, in the absence of explicit direction by Parliament, be construed with the least interference with the liberty of the subject. Regina v. Ngwevela,  1 So. Afr. L.R. 123.   While the subjection to parliamentary criticism is the only remedy for much in Great Britain that with us becomes the stuff of lawsuits, the English executive is amenable to challenge in court for exceeding statutorily defined legal powers. In construing such authority, English courts enforce the right to a hearing as a presupposition of English law, unless Parliament has clearly enough indicated the contrary. (See de Smith, ; so, likewise in Canada, L’Alliance des Professeurs Catholiques v. Labour Relations Bd.,   and in New Zealand, New Zealand Dairy Bd. v. Okitu Co-operative Dairy Co.,  .) The English courts have also been resourceful, through the use they make of certiorari, in setting aside executive action when based on reasons not justifiable in law. (For application of this principle in the United States, see , and .) This increasing tendency of courts to scrutinize the legal grounds given by administrative agencies for their actions may well promote greater responsibility in the agencies’ exercise of authority and in their justification of that exercise.   If government under law were confined to what is judicially *234 enforced, law in government would be very restricted, no matter how latitudinarian one’s conception of what is fitting for judicial examination of governmental action. For one thing, courts have a strong tendency to abstain from constitutional controversies. E.g., . Thereby, they may avoid conflict, at least prematurely if not permanently, with the other branches of the government and they may avoid also the determination of conflict between the nation and the states. Moreover, settlement of complicated public issues, particularly on the basis of constitutional provisions conveying indeterminate standards, is subject to the inherent limitations and contingencies of the judicial process. For constitutional adjudications involve adjustment of vast and incommensurable public interests through episodic instances, upon evidence and information limited by the narrow rules of litigation, shaped and intellectually influenced by the fortuitous choice of particular counsel.   Mr. Justice Brandeis made a fair estimate in saying that by applying its restrictive canons for adjudication, the Court has in the course of its history “avoided passing upon a large part of all the constitutional questions pressed upon it for decision.” . This is true not only of our Supreme Court, which cannot render advisory opinions however compelling the appeal for legal guidance, even at times of national emergency. (See Chief Justice Jay’s reply to President Washington’s inquiry, conveyed by Thomas Jefferson, in 3 THE CORRESPONDENCE AND PUBLIC PAPERS OF JOHN JAY 486-89 (Johnston ed. 1891).) Insistence on an immediate, substantial, and threatened interest in raising such constitutional issues is a characteristic of all high courts with power to pass upon them. (See the recent Australian case, Australian Boot Trade Employees’ Federation v. Commonwealth of Australia, 90 Commw. L.R. 24 (Austr. 1954); see also Musgrove v. Chun Teeong Toy,  A.C. 272, 283 (P.C.).) But even where advisory opinions are constitutionally authorized, tribunals are reluctant to pronounce in situations that are hypothetical or abstract or otherwise not conducive to judicial disposition. (See Lord Haldane in Attorney Gen. for British Columbia v. Attorney Gen. for Canada,  A.C. 153, 162 (P.C. 1913); Lord Sankey in In re the Regulation and Control of Aeronautics,  A.C. 54, 66 (P.C. 1931).) It is, I believe, not inaccurate to say that most of the occasions when the Supreme Court has come into virulent conflict with public *235 opinion were those in which the Court disregarded its settled tradition against needlessly pronouncing on constitutional issues. (The , does not stand alone; see the  and , controlling until the Sixteenth Amendment of February 25, 1913; , overruled by .)   The confining limits within which courts thus move in expounding law is not the most important reason for a conception of government under law far transcending merely law that is enforced in the courts. The day has long gone by when Austin’s notions exhaust the content of law. Law is not set above the government. It defines its orbit. But government is not law except insofar as law infuses government. This is not wordplaying. Also indispensable to government is ample scope for individual insight and imaginative origination by those entrusted with the public interest. If society is not to remain stagnant, there is need of action beyond uniformities found recurring in instances which sustain a generalization and demand its application. But law is not a code of fettering restraints, a litany of prohibitions and permissions. It is an enveloping and permeating habituation of behavior, reflecting the counsels of reason on the part of those entrusted with power in reconciling the pressures of conflicting interests. Once we conceive of “the rule of law” as embracing the whole range of presuppositions on which government is conducted and not as a technical doctrine of judicial authority, the relevant question is not, has it been achieved, but, is it conscientiously and systematically pursued.2   What matters most is whether the standards of reason and fair dealing are bred in the bones of people. Hyde Park represents a devotion to free speech far more dependable in its assurances, though unprotected by formal constitutional requirement, than *236 reliance upon the litigious process for its enjoyment. Again, widespread popular intolerance of the third degree, such as manifested itself in the well-known Savidge affair, reflects a more deeply grounded rule of law than is disclosed by the painful story of our continuing judicial endeavor to root out this evil through decisions in occasional dramatic cases. (For the Savidge case, see 220 H.C. DEB. (5th ser.) 805-91 (1928); Inquiry in Regard to the Interrogation by the Police of Miss Savidge, CMD. NO. 3147 (1928). As to our experience, see, e.g., Chafee, Pollak, and Stern, Report on the Third Degree, in 4 NATIONAL COMM’N ON LAW OBSERVANCE AND ENFORCEMENT, REPORTS 13 (1931), and the series of well-known cases in the Supreme Court Reports.) Let me give another illustration. “Crichel Down” will, in its way, serve to summarize the duty of obedience to standards of fair dealing and avoidance even of the appearance of official arbitrariness. As such it will affect the future conduct of English government as much as some of the leading cases which have been important factors in the development of a democratic society. (See Public Inquiry Ordered by the Ministry of Agriculture Into the Disposal of Land at Crichel Down, CMD. NO. 9176 (1954); BROWN, THE BATTLE OF CRICHEL DOWN (1955).) You will note that the instances I have given of manifestations of law responsive to the deep feelings of a people are drawn from a nation that does not rely on a written constitution. I need not add that the distinctive historical development in Great Britain, in the context of its progressive cultural and economic homogeneity, has made possible accommodation between stability and change, defining the powers of government and the limits within which due regard for individual rights require it to be kept, without embodying it in a single legal document enforceable in courts of law.   I hope, however, that you will not deem me unduly romantic in deriving comfort from the undertaking given the other day by the Kabaka, as a condition of his return to his people in Buganda, when he promised that he “will well and truly govern Buganda according to law.” (The Times (London), Aug. 13, 1955, p. 6, col. 5.) I find reason for my comfort in the fascinating account by Professor Max Gluckman of Manchester University of the extent to which law permeates the lives of the Barotse tribes of Northern Rhodesia, law in the sense in which this conference is discussing it and not something religious in nature. (GLUCKMAN, THE *237 JUDICIAL PROCESS AMONG THE BAROTSE OF NORTHERN RHODESIA (1955).)   If what I have brought you, in my endeavor to give you as frankly as I may the distillation of sixteen years of reflection from within the tribunal peculiarly concerned with government under law, is charged with being an old-fashioned liberal’s view of government and law, I plead guilty. For the charge implies allegiance to the humane and gradualist tradition in dealing with refractory social and political problems, recognizing them to be fractious because of their complexity and not amenable to quick and propitious solutions without resort to methods which deny law as the instrument and offspring of reason.   I have not been able to submit to you large generalizations that illumine or harmoniously assimilate discrete instances. Still less have I been able to fashion criteria for easier adjudication of the specific cases that will trouble future judges. They are bound to be troubled, whether they will be faced with variant aspects of old problems — old conflicts between liberty and authority, between the central government and its constituent members — or new problems inevitably thrown up by the everlasting flux of life.   Believing it still important to do so, I have tried to dispel the age-old illusion that the conflicts to which the energy and ambition and imagination of the restless human spirit give rise can be subdued, even if not settled, by giving the endeavors of reason we call law a mechanical or automatic or enduring configuration. Law cannot be confined within any such mould because life cannot be so confined. Man’s most piercing discernment of the future cannot see very far beyond his day, even when guided by the prophet’s insight and the compassionate humility of a Lincoln. And I am the last to claim that judges are apt to be endowed with these gifts. But a fair appraisal of Anglo-American judicial history ought to leave us not without encouragement that modest goals, uncompromisingly pursued, may promote what I hope you will let me call civilized ends without the need of defining them.   In what I have been saying you have no doubt heard undertones of a judge’s perplexities — particularly of a judge who has to construe, as it is called, vague and admonitory constitutional provisions. But I am very far from meaning to imply a shriveled conception of government under law. Quite the contrary. The intention of my emphasis has been not on the limited scope of judicial enforcement of laws. My concern is an affirmation — my plea *238 is for the pervasiveness throughout the whole range of government of the spirit of law, at least in the sense of excluding arbitrary official action. But however limited the area of adjudication may be, the standards of what is fair and just set by courts in controversies appropriate for their adjudication are perhaps the single most powerful influence in promoting the spirit of law throughout government. These standards also help shape the dominant civic habits and attitudes which ultimately determine the ethos of a society.   In exercising their technical jurisdiction, courts thus release contagious consequences. Nothing is farther from my mind than to suggest that judges should exceed the professional demands of a particular decision. If judges want to be preachers, they should dedicate themselves to the pulpit; if judges want to be primary shapers of policy, the legislature is their place. Self-willed judges are the least defensible offenders against government under law. But since the grounds of decisions and their general direction suffuse the public mind and the operations of government, judges cannot free themselves from the responsibility of the inevitable effect of their opinions in constricting or promoting the force of law throughout government. Upon no functionaries is there a greater duty to promote law.    69 HVLR 217 