 THE delineation which was given to the commerce clause by Marshall’s three opinions,1 with such atmospheric support as came indirectly from the general body of his constitutional views,2 at once challenged and confined the creative efforts of Taney. Marshall had rejected the general principle of strict construction in its most insidious special application, that the existence of the states operated as an impalpable limitation upon national powers.3 He saw the influence of state activities projecting beyond state boundaries, and so was ready to find activities, physically intrastate, within reach of the Congressional power over commerce.4 But for many years its exercise was to be within relatively narrow compass, and for half a century the important relevance of Marshall’s ideas was in the restrictions they *1287 implied upon state legislation. The commerce clause itself as the censor of state regulation was the boldest, the most pervasive aspect of Marshall’s deductions from it. But clauses are not truly censors; the men who apply them are. Marshall was fully conscious that the power of judicial review which he had won for the Court placed the protection of commerce “with foreign nations and among the several states” greatly in the keeping of the judges.   This was the intellectual estate into which Taney came. And the extent to which it confined him is hardly reflected in the picture of Taney that has been current, certainly until recently. Few commentators have gone to the absurd extreme of William Graham Sumner, who thus dismissed the Taney Court:   “The effect of political appointments to the bench is easily traceable, after two or three years, in the reports, which come to read like a collection of old stump speeches.”5   However, even the most sober historians have conveyed Taney as the leader of a band of militant “agrarian”, “localist,” “pro-slavery” judges, in a strategy of reaction against Marshall’s doctrines. They stage a dramatic conflict between Darkness and Light: Marshall, the architect of a nation; Taney, the bigoted provincial and protector of slavery.   American history has been written with surprising indifference to the factors that have shaped the Court’s work and its influence in our national development. General historians have not explored its processes and personalities except in their most obvious manifestations, and only beginnings have been made in specialized historical and biographical studies of the Court. But we now know enough to warrant the judgment that few aspects of American history are more darkened by inaccuracy and misunderstanding than the comparative functioning of the Supreme Court in the federal system during the Marshall and the Taney periods.   Our immediate concern is with the commerce clause. It is not *1288 true that Taney accomplished a wholesale reversal of Marshall’s doctrines. He could not have done so, apart from the constraints of precedent upon him. He had strong-minded associates, for whom Marshall’s views represented orthodoxy. The contest within the Court between the divergent views represented by Taney and McLean produced the inevitable compromises, at least as to doctrine, by which members of less settled convictions are conciliated. Taney’s own point of view was not “agrarian” in the sense that it represented radical ideas regarding the institution of private property; he was disturbed over the growth of financial concentration. He was not “localist” in any dogmatic insistence upon state as against Congressional power, but was tolerant of legislative freedom for the states in the absence of Congressional legislation, the more so because implied restrictions upon the states were necessarily the creatures of judicial discretion. Least of all was he a “pro-slavery” man in any invidious sense; he was merely concerned lest the Union be broken by extreme action, and the South become the economic vassal of Northern capitalism. Marshall and Taney were very different in temperament, were shaped by different experiences, were governed by different reflections and presuppositions regarding American society and the Federal Government as a scheme for its fulfillment. But it does less than justice to the statesmanship of Marshall and Taney to conceal their real divergences beneath an oversimplified contrast, and it neglects opportunities for fascinating inquiry to find contrasts where in fact there was doctrinal accommodation.   Taney’s chief difference with Marshall was in his challenge of the latter’s central doctrine, that the “dormant” commerce clause operated to impose restrictions upon state authority which it was the duty of the Court to define and enforce.6 His own outlook may be summarized in three propositions. He flatly denied that the mere grant of the commerce power operated to limit state power. The commerce clause was what it pretended to be, an authority for Congress to act. Finally, the Court’s function was to determine the existence of a conflict between state and federal *1289 legislation purporting to regulate commerce, whenever it became necessary to the disposition of a particular litigation, and then to override the state statute only if an indubitable conflict with the act of Congress was found to exist. This, in sum, represents Taney’s views. We shall later canvass to what extent they entered the Court’s opinions.   Taney laid down his major thesis with sturdy simplicity in his dissent in The License Cases:   “... it appears to me to be very clear, that the mere grant of power to the general government cannot, upon any just principles of construction, be construed to be an absolute prohibition to the exercise of any power over the same subject by the States. The controlling and supreme power over commerce with foreign nations and the several States is undoubtedly conferred upon Congress. Yet, in my judgment, the State may nevertheless, for the safety or convenience of trade, or for the protection of the health of its citizens, make regulations of commerce for its own ports and harbours, and for its own territory; and such regulations are valid unless they come in conflict with a law of Congress.”7   Taney had history on his side. From the beginning of the Union, the states had woven a network of regulatory measures over foreign and interstate commerce. He does not allow Marshall to obscure the significance of this practice by the convenient apologetics of the police power. Questions of power and the practical results of legislation cannot be evaded by labels:   “... what are the police powers of a State? They are nothing more or less than the powers of government inherent in every sovereignty to the extent of its dominions. And whether a State passes a quarantine law, or a law to punish offenses, or to establish courts of justice, or requiring certain instruments to be recorded, or to regulate commerce within its own limits, in every case it exercises the same power; that is to say, the power of sovereignty, the power to govern men and things within the limits of its dominion. It is by virtue of this power that it legislates; and its authority to make regulations of commerce is as absolute as its power to pass health laws, except in so far as it has been restricted by the constitution of the United States. And when the validity of a State law making regulations of commerce is drawn into question in a judicial tribunal, the authority to pass it cannot be made to depend upon the motives *1290 that may be supposed to have influenced the legislature, nor can the court inquire whether it was intended to guard the citizens of the State from pestilence and disease, or to make regulations of commerce for the interests and convenience of trade.   “Upon this question the object and motive of the State are of no importance, and cannot influence the decision. It is a question of power. Are the States absolutely prohibited by the constitution from making any regulations of foreign commerce? If they are, then such regulations are null and void, whatever may have been the motive of the State, or whatever the real object of the law; and it requires no law of Congress to control or annul them.”8   Taney’s analysis destroys the illusive simplicity of Marshall’s concession of a “police” power to the states.9 Commercial legislation and police legislation are not discrete processes. Their manifestations are not easily differentiated by judicial scrutiny. By no form of words does the Court ultimately escape considerations not sharply different from those that are the concern of a legislature. What Taney said in another connection is relevant here:   “In taking jurisdiction, as the law now stands, we must exercise a broad and undefinable discretion, without any certain and safe rule to guide us .... such a discretion appears to me more appropriately to belong to the Legislature than to the Judiciary.”10   The relation of the commerce clause to the states’ taxing power furnished the most uncompromising clash of ideas between Marshall and Taney. Problems of taxation usually raise the sharpest conflicts between statesmen. Had Marshall’s theory of the “dormant” commerce power prevailed, the taxable resources of the states would have been greatly confined. The full implications of his theory, if logically pursued, might well have profoundly altered the relations between the states and the central government.11 Taney refused to draw any implications from the commerce clause against the power of states to tax. In The Passenger Cases, in *1291 1847, the Court passed on the exaction of taxes by Massachusetts and New York from immigrants entering their ports. Taney’s dissent thus answered the contention, “that the money demanded is a tax on the captain of the vessel, and therefore a regulation of commerce”:   “The taxing power of the State is restrained only where the tax is directly or indirectly a duty on imports or tonnage. And the case before us is the first in which this power has been held to be still further abridged by mere affirmative grants of power to the general government .... And if it is hereafter to be the law of this court, that the power to regulate commerce has abridged the taxing power of the States upon the vehicles or instruments of commerce, I cannot foresee to what it may lead; whether the same prohibition, upon the same principle, may not be carried out in respect to ship owners and merchandise in a way seriously to impair the powers of taxation which have heretofore been exercised by the States.”12   This was not the dialectic of a states-rights doctrinaire like Calhoun. Taney’s views seem rather to derive from his conception of the judicial function, from his unwillingness to open the door to judicial policy-making wider than the Constitution obviously required. Apparently he was not willing to find in the commerce clause even an implied prohibition upon state taxation discriminating against foreign or interstate commerce.13 But where the Constitution expressly limits state power, the restriction must be enforced with scrupulous vigor. Indirections, even in favor of the states, are not to be tolerated. In The Passenger Cases he neatly draws the distinction between full enforcement of an express limitation, and the creation of an implied restriction:   *1292 “Unquestionably a tax on the captain of a ship, bringing in merchandise, would be indirectly a tax on imports, and consequently unlawful; but his being an instrument of commerce and navigation does not make it so; for a tax upon the instrument of commerce is not forbidden.”14   Taney himself during his nearly thirty years as Chief Justice, never voted to invalidate a state statute because it offended the protection of the “dormant” commerce clause. But in 1851, in Cooley v. Board of Wardens, he silently acquiesced in the opinion of Mr. Justice Curtis, which enunciated what has become classic doctrine:   “Now, the power to regulate commerce, embraces a vast field, containing not only many, but exceedingly various subjects, quite unlike in their nature; some imperatively demanding a single uniform rule, operating equally on the commerce of the United States in every port; and some, like the subject now in question, as imperatively demanding that diversity, which alone can meet the local necessities of navigation.   “... Whatever subjects of this power are in their nature national, or admit only of one uniform system, or plan of regulation, may justly be said to be of such a nature as to require exclusive legislation by Congress.”15   In the particular case, since the state statute was sustained, the application of the new doctrine of selective exclusiveness led to the same result as would have been achieved by Taney’s complete denial of implied limitations arising from the commerce clause. The considerations that move a judge to yield concurrence in an opinion reaching an approved result through uncongenial doctrine are among the most teasing mysteries to a student of the Supreme Court. Long term strategy or immediate fatigue, hopelessness of opposition or depreciation of the importance of the pronouncement, bonhommie of common labors or avoidance of undue division — such are the factors that may restrain the expression of individual views. Mr. Justice Daniel, who usually shared Taney’s views, declined to join in the Cooley opinion.16 To try to account for Taney’s failure to dissociate himself from Curtis’ views is to indulge in unverifiable speculation. He certainly did not become *1293 a convert to them. He had two opportunities to make relevant use of the doctrine of the Cooley case. In neither instance did he refer to the case or adopt its analysis.17 Taney may well have felt the tide was moving against his own complete rejection of Marshall’s views. These had vigorous spokesmen in Mr. Justice McLean and Mr. Justice Wayne. Curtis had recently joined the Court, and Taney could hardly count on him for support. As Chief Justice, Taney had it within his power to make himself spokesman for the Court. That he should have assigned the opinion to Curtis, is strong indication that he could not have carried the Court with him for his own unqualified views. If he concluded to accept the compromise of the Cooley case as a barrier to the adoption of a more rigid formula, he was exercising the kind of judgment that not infrequently operates in judicial history.   Taney’s unwillingness to have the Court become the arbiter of policy through a loose construction of the commerce clause likewise led him to view with strictness federal enactments when used as swords against state legislation. His dissent in the Wheeling Bridge case is a striking illustration of this attitude.18 The case presented a conflict between claims arising under the federal coasting licensing act, which had been upheld in Gibbons v. Ogden,19 and those asserted under Virginia statutes authorizing the maintenance of a bridge over the Ohio River. The variety of the interests at stake and the practical disabilities of the Court adequately to adjust these interests, strongly convinced Taney of the Court’s incompetence to resolve the conflict.20 And so, by a twist of the licensing act, he avoided its infringement by the state legislation.21 Now Taney had not that general animus against legislation which leads to frustrating interpretation. Nor did he distort *1294 federal enactments in the service of states’ rights. The directing impulse was his conviction that a situation such as was presented in the Wheeling Bridge case was a fitting occasion for the exercise of judicial self-restraint. Conflict there was, but the appropriate agency for its resolution seemed to him to be Congress and not the Court. In the particular controversy, subsequent events vindicated his judgment.22 In reaching it he used, as great judges before and since have used, lawyers’ artifices as instruments of judicial policy.   He also furthered his general policy of giving restrictive scope to the commerce clause by narrowing the conception of interstate commerce. He did not deny that the business of transporting people partook of commerce, but the propulsion of the general drift of his mind led him to withdraw “intercourse of persons passing from one state to another” from the ambit of interstate commerce.23 In this curtailment of the scope of the commerce clause, Taney had the assent of only the faithful Mr. Justice Daniel.24 But even those whom Curtis called “the high-toned Federalists” on Taney’s Court accepted Taney’s geographical dichotomy between state and interstate commerce.25 They evidently missed Marshall’s realization of the organic relationship of commercial transactions which, in the interest of our federalism, are more or less artificially allocated to the respective jurisdiction of states and nation. They assumed, with Taney, that what is an interrelated process of commerce constitutes in fact as well as in law disparate transactions confined within two sharply separated and distinct areas of power. One must be on his guard against recreating history by hindsight, and attributing to the language of an early legal doctrine the implications which the evolution of experience has put into it. And so we must be wary in assuming that Marshall, in the *1295 generality of his description of commerce, felt with vivid concreteness the inseparable complex of such economic factors as those which have given rise to the Shreveport and other modern doctrines of constitutional law, whereby transactions in and of themselves wholly transpiring within a single state are drawn within the radius of federal power. Nevertheless, it is tolerably clear that McLean, the stout exponent of Marshall’s general philosophy of the commerce clause, quite misconceived the subtler reaches of his master’s mind when he argued that   “All commercial action within the limits of a State, and which does not extend to any other State or foreign country, is exclusively under State regulation ... if Congress should impose a tonnage duty on vessels which ply between ports within the same State, or require such vessels to take out a license, or impose a tax on persons transported in them, the act would be unconstitutional and void.”26   The fate of Marshall’s “original package” doctrine during the Taney regime illustrates that the same legal device may serve as tie implement of opposite policies. It also shows once more that Marshall’s followers among Taney’s associates either lacked the insight to use legal doctrine for furthering the ends that they shared with Marshall, or consciously entertained a narrower view of national power. Marshall, it will be recalled, utilized the “original package” idea as a rule of thumb for determining when goods of extrastate origin passed beyond the protection of the prohibition upon state import duties, and the limitations imposed by the license to sell which he drew from the tariff act or from the commerce clause itself. Taney adopted the rule and even Marshall’s suggestion that it apply to interstate as well as foreign commerce. But, unlike Marshall, he derived from it immunity for state power as well as limitations upon it:   “This I understand to be substantially the decision in the case of Brown v. The State of Maryland, drawing the line between foreign commerce, which is subject to the regulation of Congress, and internal or domestic commerce, which belongs to the States, and over which Congress can exercise no control.”27   *1296 Moreover, in this case Taney deftly turns Marshall’s spurious interpretation of the tariff act against Marshall. For he shrewdly insists that it was “an article authorized by a law of Congress to be imported” over which Marshall cast the protection of his rule, and not any emanation from the commerce clause.28 The views of Taney’s brethren converged in his direction, but by a different route. Even McLean was unfriendly to the potentialities of the rule in Brown v. Maryland as a source of restriction upon the states.29   But Taney was not merely threshing over the old straw of Marshall’s doctrines. New economic forces were bringing new issues to the Court. The history of American constitutional law in no small measure is the history of the impact of the modern corporation upon the American scene. We are still sadly wanting a comprehensive account of the pervasive influence of corporate enterprise upon our national life, and its judicial aspect is only very partially written in the opinions dealing with constitutional protections claimed for business conducted under the corporate form. We know that Taney was keenly alive to the concentration of economic power which the corporate form promoted, and greatly concerned over its threat to those more or less egalitarian hopes for American society which he shared with Jefferson and Jackson.30   Not long after his accession, Taney was called upon to determine the constitutional status of the corporation in the setting of our federal scheme. One of his colleagues had held on circuit that suit could not be brought by a corporation of one state on a transaction consummated by its agent in another, because there the corporation had no existence. In view of the rapid growth of economic development through the corporation this was indeed an alarming doctrine. Taney, for the Court, reversed the decision.31 The way in which he met the problem is a clear reflex of *1297 his mixed feelings about the corporation. He recognized its utility but feared its abuse. And so he invoked the resourceful possibilities of the doctrine of comity. A corporation, that is, was entitled to send its agents into another than its home state and enjoy the protection of the laws of that state, but freedom was left to the states to legislate against the entrance of corporate enterprise from without.32 This decision, Bank of Augusta v. Earle,33 gave legal recognition to the fact that corporations have the same practical capacity for doing business outside their home state as within. Corporations could only act through persons, but that did not make corporations people. And so Taney carefully circumscribed the basis of their constitutional rights. Had his governing outlook been different, ample legal materials were at hand, as Gerard C. Henderson showed,34 for devising a theory of citizenship for the corporation within the protection of the privileges and immunities clause of the Constitution. Taney rejected the applicability of this clause to the corporation, not because textual analysis or controlling precedents forebade. He did so because, having the power to choose, he chose to deny, by reason of his economic and political outlook, the enhancement of strength that such constitutional protection would give.   This decision of Taney’s came nearly an hundred years ago. Not even he would recognize the transformation of our national economy by corporate development, and certainly not the transformation of his doctrine by the labor of his successors. It is not surprising that his own opinion was the fertile source of confusion, of winding and twisting of doctrine. His was a pioneer effort to reconcile confused aims and accommodate conflicting pressures within the framework of a legal formula. It took decades to evolve even a partially coherent theory for the scope of *1298 free action which Taney allowed the corporation, and in some major aspects of the problem sound legal theory has not yet been formulated to harmonize the talk of the cases with business actualities. Beginning with Taney’s opinion in the Earle case, the uncertainty and incoherence of doctrine regarding the constitutional status of the corporation reflect the confusion of hopes and fears in American thought generally regarding the social utility of the corporate device.   If it be true that law draws its juices from life and is not a system of stagnation, we must not expect consistency in detail or the unfolding of sterile logic in its development; least of all, in the opinions of a judge who for thirty years was charged with working out legal accommodations for the intricate political scheme by which the American people are governed. Only a fanatical doctrinaire could achieve such ruthless sterility. Taney was neither fanatic nor doctrinaire. If in essentials his opinions under the commerce clause hang together, as Marshall’s did in their way, it is because the work of both men was infused with a philosophy regarding our federalism as a means to an ordered social life — and the Court as a means of regulating the federalism.   The mists of prejudice are only gradually lifting from Taney’s reputation. Eventually, one hopes, it will become intellectually disreputable to see him predominantly as the judicial defender of slavery. It is irrelevant to our immediate purpose to define his share in the responsibility of the whole Court for the tragic Dred Scott affair,35 for we are concerned with his judicial labors only in so far as they center around the commerce clause. This clause has throughout the Court’s history been the chief source of its adjudications regarding federalism. Certainly no other body of opinions affords a fairer or more revealing test of judicial qualities. The traditional notion that the preoccupation of Taney’s judicial career was the promotion of slavery cannot survive a critical interpretation of the commerce cases. Only one directly touched the slavery issue. Indeed, largely because of the Dred Scott case, the significance of that issue in the work of the Court as a whole has been greatly exaggerated. This is not to deny that the powerful undertow of the conflict over slavery also caught the Court. But it caught the whole Court, and not alone in the case of Dred Scott. *1299 Groves v. Slaughter is the one instance where Taney expressed very narrow views as to the scope of the commerce clause, when the interests of a slave state plainly coincided with those views.36 Taney there denied the applicability of the commerce clause to restrict the right of a state to prohibit the importation of slaves for sale. But in sustaining such a statute, northerners like Story and McLean were ranged on the same side with the Chief Justice. We cannot be certain about the tactical considerations that led to such agreement.37 We do know that Taney himself did not favor “the peculiar institution”, and the probabilities are overwhelming that his deepest desire was to avoid disunion.38 He would probably have explained his policy on the Court in language not dissimilar to that of Lincoln’s famous letter to Horace Greeley: “My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union and is not either to save or to destroy slavery.”39   Certainly not slavery, but Taney’s fear of the growing power of finance was most clearly reflected in his opinions. The struggle over the Bank enlisted convictions that had been long maturing, and deepened their intensity. Anxieties which he avowed as Secretary of the Treasury did not leave him when he became Chief Justice:   “It is a fixed principle of our political institutions, to guard against the unnecessary accumulation of power over persons and property in any hands; and no hands are less worthy to be trusted with it than those of a moneyed corporation.”40   Taney had an acute, fertile mind, and a knowledge of affairs born of wide and intimate experience. His was an unusual equipment *1300 for seeing in the passing controversies before the Court opportunity for influencing the trend of events in the direction of his convictions. He was alert against an application of the Constitution which would foster an economic development regarded by him as mischievous. Being hostile to monopolies, he found no difficulty in denying them constitutional backing by fashioning a rule of strict construction for the interpretation of public grants. Government will not lightly be deemed to have enfeebled itself by surrendering its power of control:   “the object and end of all government is to promote the happiness and prosperity of the community by which it is established; and it can never be assumed, that the government intended to diminish its power of accomplishing the end for which it was created.”41   To avoid the evils of financial monopoly, the state may regulate its circulating medium through the issue of notes by its own bank.42 The same economic outlook led Taney in the Earle case to refuse corporate enterprise the shelter of the Constitution and to leave the states power to shape their own economic policies.43   Such views earned for Taney the prevalent vituperative adjective of “agrarian”. And the implications of the term have floated down the current of time, so that even Beard finds that   “Jacksonian judges from agrarian states broke down the historic safeguards thrown around property rights by the letter of the Constitution and the jurisprudence of John Marshall.”44   Such a characterization is a triumph of eloquence over detail. The American political tradition represented by Taney and his colleagues is definitely not that of Shays Rebellion, the Kentucky Relief Laws, and the later Populists, but rather that of which the Insurgency of the elder LaFollette, the Progressivism of Theodore Roosevelt, and the New Freedom of Woodrow Wilson are in direct line of descent. Taney was not skeptical of the conventional institutions of property. Thus in Bronson v. Kinzie45 he invalidated *1301 moratory legislation growing out of the panic of 1837, in vigorous vindication of the contracts clause of the Constitution, and his opinion in the Earle case reflects appreciation of practical business necessities.46 Taney’s “agrarianism” was at bottom an ethical conception of the social responsibilities of private property. “While the rights of property”, he wrote in the Charles River Bridge case, “are sacredly guarded, we must not forget that the community also has rights, and that the happiness and well being of every citizen depends on their faithful preservation.”47   Taney doubtless shared the Jacksonian belief that under his predecessor the Court had thrown the balance of constitutional protection unfairly against the public interest in favor of property.48 This may well have been a source of a strong tendency in him to restrict the area of judicial discretion in constitutional decision. He stuck close to the language of the text, avoiding implications derived from large notions of policy, because he did not believe that judges were especially qualified to shape political and economic policy. Such a feeling was doubtless nourished by the insight which his experience as legislator and administrator gave him into the enormous difficulties of the art of government. For one thing, the very limitations of a lawsuit often present the general problem of policy which is at stake in a mutilated form or without the facts adequate for its understanding. Thus in the Wheeling Bridge case he urged against the Court’s assumption of jurisdiction that Congress   “has better means ... of obtaining information, than the narrow scope of judicial proceedings can afford. It may adopt regulations by which courts of justice may be guided in an inquiry like this with some degree of certainty, instead of leaving them to the undefined discretion which must now be exercised in every case that may be brought before us, without being able to lay down any certain rule, by which this discretion may be limited. It is too near the confines of legislation; and I think the court ought not to assume it.”49   *1302 The wisdom of such an attitude of judicial self-restraint must have been reinforced in Taney’s mind by the frequency of close division among his brethren whereby grave questions of policy were decided not even by the collective judgment of the whole Court. But masterful judges are not always restrained by their wisdom of self-denial. The temptation to express what he conceived to be right views on occasions judicially irrelevant was sometimes too strong also for Taney.   The devastation of the Civil War for a long time obliterated the truth about Taney. And the blaze of Marshall’s glory will permanently overshadow him. But the intellectual power of his opinions and their enduring contribution to a workable adjustment of the theoretical distribution of authority between two governments for a single people, place Taney second only to Marshall in the constitutional history of our country.    49 HVLR 1286 