A MINISTRY OF JUSTICE 

THE courts are not helped as they could and ought to be in the 
adaptation of law to justice. The reason they are not helped 
is because there is no one whose business it is to give warning that 
help is needed. Time was when the remedial agencies, though inadequate, were at least in our own hands. Fiction and equity were 
tools which we could apply and fashion for ourselves. The artifice 
was clumsy, but the clumsiness was in some measure atoned for by 
the skill of the artificer. Legislation, supplanting fiction and equity, 
has multiplied a thousand fold the power and capacity of the tool, 
but has taken the use out of our own hands and put it in the hands 
of others. The means of rescue are near for the worker in the mine. 
Little will the means avail unless lines of communication are established between the miner and his rescuer. We must have a 
courier who will carry the tidings of distress to those who are there 
to save when signals reach their ears. Today courts and legislature work in separation and aloofness. The penalty is paid both 
in the wasted effort of production and in the lowered quality of 
the product. On the one side, the judges, left to fight against 
anachronism and injustice by the methods of judge-made law, are 
distracted by the conflicting promptings of justice and logic, of 
consistency and mercy, and the output of their labors bears the 
tokens of the strain. On the other side, the legislature, informed 
only casually and intermittently of the needs and problems of the 
courts, without expert or responsible or disinterested or systematic advice as to the workings of one rule or another, patches the fabric 
here and there, and mars often when it would mend. Legislature 
and courts move on in proud and silent isolation. Some agency 
must be found to mediate between them. 

This task of mediation is that of a ministry of justice. The duty 
must be cast on some man or group of men to watch the law 
in action, observe the manner of its functioning, and report the 
changes needed when function is deranged. The thought is not a 
new one. Among our own scholars, it has been developed by Dean 
Pound with fertility and power. Others before him, as he reminds 
us, had seen the need, and urged it. Bentham made provision for 
such a ministry in his draft of a Constitutional Code. Lord 
Westbury renewed the plea. Only recently, Lord Haldane has 
brought it to the fore again. "There is no functionary at present 
who can properly be called a minister responsible for the subject of 
Justice." ' ' We are impressed by the representations made by men 
of great experience, such as the President of the Incorporated Law 
Society, as to the difficulty of getting the attention of the government to legal reform, and as to the want of contact between those 
who are responsible for the administration of the work of the 
Commercial Courts and the mercantile community, and by the 
evidence adduced that the latter are, in consequence and progressively, withdrawing their disputes from the jurisdiction of the 
Courts." In countries of continental Europe, the project has passed 
into the realm of settled practice. Apart from these precedents 
and without thought of them, the need of such a ministry, of someone to observe and classify and criticize and report, has been driven 
home to me with steadily growing force through my own work in 
an appellate court. I have seen a body of judges applying a system 
of case law, with powers of innovation cabined and confined. The 
main lines are fixed by precedents. New lines may, indeed, be run, 
new courses followed, when precedents are lacking. Even then, 
distance and direction are guided by mingled considerations of 

logic and analogy and history and tradition which moderate and 
temper the promptings of policy and justice. I say this, not to 
criticize, but merely to describe. I have seen another body, 
a legislature, free from these restraints, its powers of innovation 
adequate to any need, preoccupied, however, with many issues 
more clamorous than those of courts, viewing with hasty and partial 
glimpses the things that should be viewed both steadily and whole. 
I have contrasted the quick response whenever the interest affected 
by a ruling untoward in results had some accredited representative, 
especially some public officer, through whom its needs were rendered vocal. A case involving, let us say, the construction of the 
Workmen's Compensation Law, exhibits a defect in the statutory 
scheme. We find the Attorney General at once before the legislature with the request for an amendment. We cannot make a 
decision construing the tax law or otherwise affecting the finances 
of the state without inviting like results. That is because in these 
departments of the law, there is a public officer whose duty prompts 
him to criticism and action. Seeing these things, I have marveled 
and lamented that the great fields of private law, where justice is 
distributed between man and man, should be left without a care- 
taker. A word would bring relief. There is nobody to speak it. 

For there are times when deliverance, if we are to have it  at 
least, if we are to have it with reasonable speed ‚it must come to us, 
not from within, but from without. Those who know best the 
nature of the judicial process, know best how easy it is to arrive at 
an impasse. Some judge, a century or more ago, struck out upon a 
path. The course seemed to be directed by logic and analogy. 
No milestone of public policy or justice gave warning at the moment 
that the course was wrong, or that danger lay ahead. Logic and 
analogy beckoned another judge still farther. Even yet there was 
no hint of opposing or deflecting forces. Perhaps the forces were 
not in being. At all events, they were not felt. The path went 
deeper and deeper into the forest. Gradually there were rumblings 
and stirrings of hesitation and distrust, anxious glances were directed to the right and to the left, but the starting point was far 
behind, and there was no other path in sight. 

Thus, again and again, the processes of judge-made law bring 
judges to a stand that they would be glad to abandon if an outlet 
could be gained. It is too late to retrace their steps. At all events , 
whether really too late or not, so many judges think it is that the 
result is the same as if it were. Distinctions may, indeed, supply 
for a brief distance an avenue of escape. The point is at length 
reached when their power is exhausted. All the usual devices of 
competitive analogies have finally been employed without avail. 
The ugly or antiquated or unjust rule is there. It will not budge 
unless uprooted. Execration is abundant, but execration, if followed 
by submission, is devoid of motive power. There is need of a fresh 
start; and nothing short of a statute, unless it be the erosive work 
of years, will supply the missing energy. But the evil of injustice 
and anachronism is not limited to cases where the judicial process, 
unaided, is incompetent to gain the mastery. Mastery, even when 
attained, is the outcome of a constant struggle in which logic and 
symmetry are sacrificed at times to equity and justice. The gain 
may justify the sacrifice; yet it is not gain without deduction. 
There is an attendant loss of that certainty which is itself a social 
asset. There is a loss too of simplicity and directness, an increasing 
aspect of unreality, of something artificial and fictitious, when 
judges mask a change of substance, or gloss over its importance, 
by the suggestion of a consistency that is merely verbal and scholastic. Even when these evils are surmounted, a struggle, of which 
the outcome is long doubtful, is still the price of triumph. The 
result is to subject the courts and the judicial process to a strain as 
needless as it is wearing. The machinery is driven to the breaking 
point; yet we permit ourselves to be surprised that at times there is 
a break. Is it not an extraordinary omission that no one is charged 
with the duty to watch machinery or output, and to notify the 
master of the works when there is need of replacement or repair? 

In all this, I have no thought to paint the failings of our law in 
lurid colors of detraction. I have little doubt that its body is for 
the most part sound and pure. Not even its most zealous advocate, 
however, will assert that it is perfect. I do not seek to paralyze 
the inward forces, the "indwelling and creative" energies, that 
make for its development and growth. My wish is rather to release 
them, to give them room and outlet for healthy and unhampered 
action. The statute that will do this, first in one field and then in 
others, is something different from a code, though, as statute 
follows statute, the material may be given from which in time, a 
code will come. Codification is, in the main, restatement. What 
we need, when we have gone astray, is change. Codification is a 
slow and toilsome process, which, if hurried, is destructive. What 
we need is some relief that will not wait upon the lagging years. 
Indeed, a code, if completed, would not dispense wit mediation 
between legislature and judges, for code is followed by commentary and commentary by revision, and thus the task is never done. 
"As in other sciences, so in politics, it is impossible that all things 
should be precisely set down in writing; for enactments must be 
universal, but actions are concerned with particulars." Something less ambitious, in any event, is the requirement of the hour. 
Legislation is needed, not to repress the forces through which judge- 
made law develops, but to stimulate and free them. Often a dozen 
lines or less will be enough for our deliverance. The rule that is 
to emancipate is not to imprison in particulars. It is to speak the 
language of general principles, which, once declared, will be developed and expanded as analogy and custom and utility and justice, 
when weighed by judges in the balance, may prescribe the mode of 
application and the limits of extension. The judicial process is to 
be set in motion again, but with a new point of departure, a new 
impetus and direction. In breaking one set of shackles, we are not 
to substitute another. We are to set the judges free. 

I have spoken in generalities, but instances will leap to view. 
There are fields, known to us all, where the workers in the law 
are hampered by rules that are outworn and unjust. How many 
judges, if they felt free to change the ancient rule, would be ready 
to hold today that a contract under seal may not be modified or 
discharged by another and later agreement resting in parol? How 
many would hold that a deed, if it is to be the subject of escrow, 
must be delivered to a third person, and not to the grantee? 
How many would hold that a surety is released, irrespective of 
resulting damage, if by agreement between principal and creditor 
the time of payment of the debt is extended for a single day ?
How many would hold that a release of one joint tortfeasor is a 
release also of the others ? How many would not prefer, instead 
of drawing some unreal distinction between releases under seal and 
covenants not to sue to extirpate, root and branch, a rule which 
is today an incumbrance and a snare? How long would Pinnel's 
case 13 survive if its antiquity were not supposed to command the 
tribute of respect ? How long would Dumpor's case maintain a 
ghostly and disquieting existence in the ancient byways of the law? 
I have chosen extreme illustrations as most likely to command 
assent. I do not say that judges are without competence to effect 
some changes of that kind themselves. The inquiry, if pursued, 
would bring us into a field of controversy which it is unnecessary 
to enter. Whatever the limit of power, the fact stares us in the 
face that changes are not made. But short of these extreme illustrations are others, less glaring and insistent, where speedy change 
is hopeless unless effected from without. Sometimes the inroads 
upon justice are subtle and insidious. A spirit or a tendency, 
revealing itself in a multitude of little things, is the evil to be remedied. No one of its manifestations is enough, when viewed alone, 
to spur the conscience to revolt. The mischief is the work of a long 
series of encroachments. Examples are many in the law of practice and procedure. At other times, the rule, though wrong, has 
become the cornerstone of past transactions. Men have accepted 
it as law, and have acted on the faith of it. At least, the possibility 
that some have done so, makes change unjust, if it were practicable, 
without saving vested rights. Illustrations again may be found in 
many fields. A rule for the construction of wills established a 
presumption that a gift to issue is to be divided, not per stripes, but 
per capita. The courts denounced and distinguished, but were 
unwilling to abandon. In New York, a statute has at last 
released us from our bonds, and we face the future unashamed. 
Still more common are the cases where the evil is less obvious, 
where there is room for difference of opinion, where some of the 
judges believe that the existing rules are right, at all events where 
there is no such shock to conscience that precedents will be 
abandoned, and what was right declared as, wrong. At such 
times there is need of the detached observer, the skillful and impartial critic, who will view the field in its entirety, and not, as 
judges view it, in isolated sections, who will watch the rule in its 
working, and not, as judges watch it, in its making, and who 
viewing and watching and classifying and comparing, will be 
ready, under the responsibility of office, with warning and 
suggestion. 

I note at random, as they occur to me, some of the fields of law 
where the seeds of change, if sown, may be fruitful of results. 
Doubtless better instances can be chosen. My purpose is, not 
advocacy of one change or another, but the emphasis of illustration that is concrete and specific. 

It is a rule in some jurisdictions that if A sends to B an order 
for goods, which C, as the successor to B's business, takes it on 
himself to fill, no action at the suit of C will he either for the price 
or for the value, if A in accepting the goods and keeping them 
believed that they had been furnished to him by B, and this though 
C has acted without fraudulent intent. I do not say that this is 
the rule everywhere. There are jurisdictions where the question 
is still an open one. Let me assume, however, a jurisdiction where 
the rule, as I have stated it, prevails, or even one where, because 
the question is unsettled, there is a chance that it may prevail. 
A field would seem to be open for the declaration by the lawmakers 
of a rule less in accord, perhaps, with the demands of a "jurisprudence of conceptions," but more in accord with those of morality and justice. Many will prefer to turn to the principle laid down 
in the French Code Civil: 

"L'erreur n'est une cause de nullite de la convention que lorsqu'elle 
tombe sur la substance meme de la chose qui en est l'objet. Elle 
n'est point une cause de nullite, lorsqu'elle ne tombe que sur la personne 
avec laquelle on a intention de contracter, a. moins que la consideration 
de cette personne ne soit la cause principale de la convention." 

Much may be said for the view that in the absence of bad faith, 
there should be a remedy in quasi contract. 

It is a rule which has grown up in many jurisdictions and has 
become " a common ritual " that municipal corporations are liable 
for the torts of employees if incidental to the performance or 
non-performance of corporate or proprietary duties, but not if 
incidental to the performance or non-performance of duties public 
or governmental. The dividing line is hard to draw. 

"Building a drawbridge, maintaining a health department, or a charitable institution, confining and punishing criminals, assaults by police- 
men, operating an elevator in a city hall, driving an ambulance, sweeping 
and cleaning streets, have been held governmental acts. Sweeping and 
cleaning streets, street lighting, operating electric light plants, or water 
works, maintaining prisons, have been held private functions." 

The line of demarcation, though it were plainer, has at best a 
dubious correspondence with any dividing line of justice. The 
distinction has been questioned by the Supreme Court of the United 
States. It has been rejected recently in Ohio. In many jurisdictions, however, as, for example in New York, it is supported by 
precedent so inveterate that the chance of abandonment is small. 
I do not know how it would fare at the hands of a ministry of justice. 
Perhaps such a ministry would go farther, and would wipe out, not 
merely the exemption of municipalities, but the broader exemption 
of the state. 27 At least there is a field for inquiry, if not for action. 

It is a rule of law that the driver of an automobile or other 
vehicle who fails to look or listen for trains when about to cross 
a railroad, is guilty of contributory negligence, in default, at least, 
of special circumstances excusing the omission. I find no fault 
with that rule. It is reasonable and just. But the courts have 
in some jurisdictions gone farther. They have held that the 
same duty that rests upon the driver, rests also upon the passenger. The friend whom I invite to ride with me in my car, and 
who occupies the rear seat beside me, while the car is in the care 
of my chauffeur, is charged with active vigilance to watch for 
tracks and trains, and is without a remedy if in the exuberance 
of jest or anecdote or reminiscence, he relies upon the vigilance 
of the driver to carry him in safety. I find it hard to imagine 
a rule more completely unrelated to the realities of life. Men 
situated as the guest in the case I have supposed, do not act in 
the way that, this rule expects and requires them to act. In the 
first place, they would in almost every case make the situation 
worse if they did; they would add bewilderment and confusion 
by contributing multitude of counsel. In the second place, they 
rightly feel that, except in rare emergencies of danger known 
to them, but unknown to the driver, it is not their business 
to do anything. The law in charging them with such a duty has 
shaped its rules in disregard of the common standards of conduct, 
the every-day beliefs and practices, of the average man and woman 
whose behavior - it assumes to regulate. We must take a fresh 
start. We must erect a standard of conduct that realists can 
accept as just. Other fields of the law of negligence may be 
resurveyed with equal profit. The law that defines or seeks 
to define the distinction between general and special employers 
is beset with distinctions so delicate that chaos is the consequence. 
No lawyer can say with assurance in any given situation when 
one employment ends and the other begins. The wrong choice 
of defendants is often made, with instances, all too many, in 
which justice has miscarried. 

Illustrations yet more obvious are at hand in the law of evidence. 
Some of its rules are so unwieldy that many of the simplest things of life, transactions so common as the sale and delivery of merchandise, are often the most difficult to prove. Witnesses speaking 
of their own knowledge must follow the subject-matter of the sale 
from its dispatch to its arrival. I have been told by members of 
the bar that claims of undoubted validity are often abandoned, if 
contested, because the withdrawal of the necessary witnesses from 
the activities of business involves an expense and disarrangement 
out of proportion to the gain. The difficulty would be lessened if 
entries in books of account were admissible as prima facie evidence 
upon proof that they were made in the usual course of business. 
Such a presumption would harmonize in the main with the teachings of experience. Certainly it would in certain lines of business, 
as, e. g., that of banking, where irregularity of accounts is unquestionably the rare exception. Even the books of a bank are not 
admissible at present without wearisome preliminaries. In England, the subject has for many years been regulated by statute. 30 
Something should be done in our own country to mitigate the 
hardship. "The dead hand of the common-law rule . . . should 
no longer be applied to such cases as we have here," 

We are sometimes slow, I fear, while absorbed in the practice of 
our profession, to find inequity and hardship in rules that laymen 
view with indignation and surprise. One can understand why this 
is so. We learned the rules in youth when we were students in the 
law schools. We have seen them reiterated and applied as truths 
that are fundamental and almost axiomatic. We have sometimes 
even won our cases by invoking them. We end by accepting them 
without question as part of the existing order. They no longer 
have the vividness and shock of revelation and discovery. There 
is need of conscious effort, of introspective moods and moments, 
before their moral quality addresses itself to us with the same 
force as it does to others. This is at least one reason why the bar 
has at times been backward in the task of furthering reform. A 
recent study of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement 
of Teaching deals with the subject of training for the public profession of the law. Dr. Pritchett says in his preface 

"There is a widespread impression in the public mind that the members 
of the legal profession have not, through their organizations, contributed 
either to the betterment of legal education or to the improvement of 
justice to that extent which society has the right to expect." 


"So long as the leaders of the bar," he says, "do nothing to make the 
materials of our legal tradition available for the needs of the twentieth 
century, and our legislative lawmakers, more zealous than well instructed 
in the work they have to do, continue to justify the words of the chronicler ‚ 'the more they spake of law the more they did unlaw' ‚ so long 
the public will seek refuge in specious projects of reforming the outward 
machinery of our legal order in the vain hope of curing its inward spirit." 

Such reproaches are not uncommon. We do not need to consider 
either their justification or their causes. Enough for us that they 
exist. Our duty is to devise the agencies and stimulate the forces 
that will make them impossible hereafter. 

What, then, is the remedy? Surely not to leave to fitful chance 
the things that method and system and science should order and 
adjust. Responsibility must be centered somewhere. The only 
doubt, it seems to me, is where. The attorneys-general, the law 
officers of the states, are overwhelmed with other duties. They 
hold their places by a tenure that has little continuity, or permanence. Many are able lawyers, but a task so delicate exacts the 
scholar and philosopher, and scholarship and philosophy find pre- 
carious and doubtful nurture in the contentions of the bar. Even 
those qualities, however, are inadequate unless reinforced by others. 
There must go with them experience of life and knowledge of affairs. 
No one man is likely to combine in himself attainments so diverse. 
We shall reach the best results if we lodge power in a group, where 
there may be interchange of views, and where different types of 
thought and training will have a chance to have their say. I do 
not forget, of course, the work that is done by Bar Associations, 
state and national, as well as local, and other voluntary bodies. The 
work has not risen to the needs of the occasion. Much of it has been 
critical rather than constructive. Even when constructive, it has 
been desultory and sporadic. No attempt has been made to cover 
with systematic and comprehensive vision the entire field of law. 
Discharge of such a task requires an expenditure of time and energy, 
a single-hearted consecration, not reasonably to be expected of 
men in active practice. It exacts, too, a scholarship and a habit of 
research not often to be found in those immersed in varied duties. 
Even if these objections were inadequate, the task ought not to be 
left to a number of voluntary committees, working at cross purposes. Recommendations would come with much greater authority, 
would command more general acquiescence on the part of legislative 
bodies, if those who made them were charged with the responsibilities of office. A single committee should be organized as a 
ministry of justice. Certain at least it is that we must come to 
some official agency unless the agencies that are voluntary give 
proof of their capacity and will to watch and warn and purge ‚ 
unless the bar awakes to its opportunity and power. 

How the committee should be constituted, is, of course, not of 
the essence of the project. My own notion is that the ministers 
should be not less than five in number. There should be representatives, not less than two, perhaps even as many as three, of the 
faculties of law or political science in institutes of learning. Hardly 
elsewhere shall we find the scholarship on which the ministry must 
be able to draw if its work is to stand the test. There should be, 
if possible, a representative of the bench; and there should be a 
representative or representatives of the bar. 

Such a board would not only observe for itself the workings of 
the law as administered day by day. It would enlighten itself 
constantly through all available sources of guidance and instruction; through consultation with scholars; through study of the law 
reviews, the journals of social science, the publications of the learned 
generally; and through investigation of remedies and methods in 
other jurisdictions, foreign and domestic. A project was sketched 
not long ago by Professor John Bassett Moore, now judge of the 
International Court, for an Institute of Jurisprudence. It was to 
do for law what the Rockefeller Institute is doing for medicine. 
Such an institute, if founded, would be at the service of the ministers. The Commonwealth Fund has established a Committee 
for Legal Research which is initiating studies in branches of 
jurisprudence where reform may be desirable. The results of 
its labors will be available for guidance. Professors in the universities are pointing the way daily to changes that will help. 
Professor Borchard of Yale by a series of articles on the Declaratory Judgment gave the impetus to a movement which has 
brought us in many states a reform long waited for by the law. Dean Stone of Columbia has disclosed inconsistencies and weak- 
nesses in decisions that deal with the requirement of mutuality of 
remedy in cases of specific performance. Professor Chafee in a 
recent article has emphasized the need of reform in the remedy 
of interpleader. In the field of conflict of laws, Professor Lorenzen 
has shown disorder to the point of chaos in the rules that are 
supposed to regulate the validity and effect of contracts. The 
archaic law of arbitration, amended not long ago in New York 
through the efforts of the Chamber of Commerce, remains in its 
archaic state in many other jurisdictions, despite requests for change. 
A ministry of justice will be in a position to gather these and like 
recommendations together, and report where change is needed. Reforms that now get themselves made by chance or after long and 
vexatious agitation, will have the assurance of considerate and 
speedy hearing. Scattered and uncoordinated forces will have a 
rallying point and focus. System and method will be substituted for 
favor and caprice. Doubtless, there will be need to guard against 
the twin dangers of overzeal on the one hand and of inertia on the 
other ‚ of the attempt to do too much and of the willingness to 
do too little. In the end, of course, the recommendations of the 
ministry will be recommendations and nothing more. The public 
will be informed of them. The bar and others interested will debate 
them. The legislature may reject them. But at least the lines of 
communication will be open. The long silence will be broken. 
The spaces between the planets will at last be bridged. 

The time is ripe for betterment. "Le droit a ses epoques," says 

Pascal in words which Professor Hazeltine has recently recalled to 

us. The law has "its epochs of ebb and flow." 43 One of the flood 

seasons is upon us. Men are insisting, as perhaps never before, 

that law shall be made true to its ideal of justice. Let us gather 

up the driftwood, and leave the waters pure. 


