 THE MESSAGE which this book seeks to convey is simple and unmistakably clear. The subtitle announces it as “The Betrayal of the American Investor.” Corporate managers and bankers, the book says, lie, deceive and take money under false pretenses; and accountants are their willing tools. In boom periods, they oversell, under-secure, and build up their personal fortunes. In depressions, they are not content to live on accumulated fat. They increase their own salaries and fees, taking losses, insofar as they can, out of the hide of labor and investors; they rob the graves to which they have led broken ventures; and triumphantly they rise, in all their glory, from the ashes of ruined businesses, destroyed investors and starved labor.   Mr. Reis makes his points by a series of case studies drawn chiefly from court files and the records of governmental investigations. The collected material in his book is a part and only a small part of the accumulated wealth of facts, history and anecdotes. The stories selected by Mr. Reis are not the richest; and they do not always make the point as well as other available stories. But they are well told. They are recounted in simple language; yet Mr. Reis has the faculty of combining simplicity of statement with accuracy of essential detail. The book is the work of an excellent craftsman.   If you already subscribe to his conclusions, you will enjoy Mr. Reis’ book. He cites evidence of them with a minimum of rhetorical denunciation and an avoidance of epithet. If you don’t believe them, this book will be instructive, but not convincing.   The general purpose of the book is excellent. To the ordinary man, it should be evidence that high finance is not a game for the amateur; that the odds against success are high; that investments in securities are character loans which should not be made by persons without ability or opportunity to ascertain and weigh the risks. And if the result of these propositions is unduly to diminish the supply of capital to enterprise, it is not difficult to place responsibility for killing the goose that laid the golden eggs.   Mr. Reis book, however, has definite limitations. Some of them follow from a characterization of the described financial practices as “The Betrayal of the American Investor.” It is a decided over-simplification to think in terms of widow-orphan-investors and financiers. locked in deadly embrace. In this respect, the book is like a history of the world which speaks of nothing except armies and battles. This disregard of underlying economic and sociological fact (and of what Thurman Arnold calls “folklore”1) leads to superficiality of presentation and inadequacy of solution.   Mr. Reis “suggested remedy” for the evils of high finance is formation of an investors’ organization. This investors’ organization will, it is suggested, be a sort of glorified investment counsellor. It will, where desirable, represent security holders on boards of directors. It will investigate new issues and promote legislation in the interests of investors. It will also keep *312 its members informed as to new devices inimical to the interests of investors.   This is not a new idea. It has been talked about, in various forms, for many years. But it has never been worked out in detail, so far as I know, and Mr. Reis does not attempt to do so. The problems which it raises should have caused Mr. Reis to suggest it with the greatest misgivings.   It is clear to me that the dishonesty, disloyalty, and gutter-morality characterizing some of our financial and business practices must be eliminated. Their continuance is suicidal, and we are not willing to permit finance and business to commit suicide. But an investors’ organization is not the means whereby the job can be done. In addition to the many and perplexing problems of organizing and managing such an agency I think there is a basic difficulty. Emotionally and politically, most investors are in sympathy with the captains of finance and industry. Their occasional howls are the outraged cries of those who bet on the home team and see it sell out. But they are still loyal. Those who have been disillusioned buy government bonds or put their money in a box.   Public indignation comes largely from persons who do not own corporate securities. It has its roots in dislike for dishonesty and distaste for excessive fat. And deeper than these, the student may imagine an inarticulate, unconscious concern for the health of the body politic.   Honest dealing and prudent stewardship in high finance, therefore, will not result solely or principally from the efforts of investors. I think it also clear that they will not be brought about by self-regulation of business and finance. If they come, they will be primarily the product of governmental control, founded on the broad basis of popular demand and national need. This means that effective legislation, effectively administered, is essential.   How this can be obtained is a problem of surpassing difficulty. The history of prior efforts does not promise a large measure of present or future success. Those whom we seek to regulate conceive themselves — and have successively proved themselves — to be more powerful than the regulators. Laws directed at financial control have been successfully assailed and subtly undermined. The ink on the statutes has scarcely dried before efforts to administer them have begun to pale. Agencies for control have themselves been controlled by those whom they are supposed to regulate. But the difficulty of the problem should not obscure its importance or stand in the way of valiant efforts at solution.   Mr. Reis has done a service, and written a book of good quality. The answers to the problems which I conceive to be of greater importance must come from those wise in the psychology of people and from experts in governmental technique.   New Haven, Connecticut   