EQUITABLE CONVERSION BY CONTRACT. 

If A and B enter into a contract for the sale of land, they 
respectively acquire rights and incur obligations in equity much 
more extensive than the rights and obligations of the parties at 
law, and certain consequences flow from the contract which are inconsistent with the rights of the parties at law. So far as these 
rights and obligations in equity are definitely settled by judicial 
decision they may be briefly enumerated as follows: 

1. The vendee's heir or devisee may compel specific performance by a conveyance of the title to him 1 whereas the legal title to 
the contract and the right to recover legal damages thereon vest 
in the personal representative of the vendee. As a consequence, 
the personal representatives of the vendor and of the vendee will 
not be permitted in equity to rescind or release the contract without the consent of the vendee's heir. 2 

2. The vendor's heir or devisee is bound by the contract to the 
extent that he is bound to convey the property, pursuant to the 
contract, 3 although the vendor's personal representative is entitled 
to receive the purchase money. 4 

3. The vendee's widow has dower in the property in jurisdictions where there is dower in an equitable right to land.

4. The assignee of the vendor's contract or the personal 
representative of the vendor is entitled, as against the vendor or 
his heir or devisee, to compel the conveyance of the land pursuant 
to the contract, 6 or to compel its sale and the application of the 
proceeds in payment of the purchase price. 

5. The vendee can compel husband-like conduct by the vendor 
pending a conveyance. 

6. In most jurisdictions, in equity, the burden of loss or injury 
to the property pending conveyance, without the fault of the vendor 
falls on the vendee, 8 although at law the loss would fall on the 
vendor as the owner of the legal title. 

These differences in result in courts of law and in the courts 
of equity have been attributed both by text 10 and by judicial 
writers 11 to the application of the so-called doctrine of "equitable 
conversion." This doctrine may be said to have been originated 
by Lord Eldon, who stated it in its modern form in Seaton v. 
Slade, 12 as follows :

"The effect of a contract for purchase is very different at Law 
and in Equity. At Law the estate remains the estate of the vendor ; and the money that of the vendee. It is not so here. The estate from the sealing of the contract is the real property of the 
vendee. It descends to his heirs. It is devisible by his will; and 
the question, whose it is, is not to be discussed merely between the 
vendor and vendee ; but may be to be discussed between the representatives of the vendee." 

The commonly accepted view of this doctrine was stated by 
Jessel, M. R., in Lysaght v. Edwards™ in commenting on the legal 
consequences of entering into a contract specifically enforceable, 
as follows: 

"Being a valid contract, it has this remarkable effect, that it 
coverts the estate, so to say, in equity; it makes the purchase money a part of the personal estate of the vendor, and it makes 
the land a part of the real estate of the vendee; and therefore all 
those cases on the doctrine of constructive conversion are founded 
simply on this, that a valid contract actually changes the ownership of the estate in equity." 

The continuing influence 6f this doctrine as a basis of judicial 
decision could not be better illustrated than by the opinion of the 
court in the recent case of Rockland Company v. Leary. 13 * Judge 
Vann said in part in discussing this subject: 

"The doctrine of equitable conversion rests on the presumed 
intention of the owner of the property and on the maxim that equity 
regards as done what ought to be done. The conversion usually 
becomes effective at the date of the instrument expressing the intention, if a deed or contract, and if a will, at the date of the testator's death." 

The statement which is so frequently made by writers on 
the subject that equitable conversion by contract arises from the 
''presumed intention" of the parties is only another way of saying 
that it does not rest upon intention at all, but depends rather upon the operation of rules of law, regardless of the intent of the 
owner. As will sufficiently appear hereafter, a so-called equitable 
conversion may take place without the actual intent of the owner, 
and in many cases it will fail, because of defects in or defenses to 
the contract, the existence of which were unknown to the owner 
and could not therefore have affected his intent. In this respect 
the equitable conversion by contract differs from equitable conversion under a will which depends upon the intention of the testator as expressed in the will. 
 

It is obvious that all occasions- for the application of the 
doctrine of equitable conversion by contract will arise in connection with one or two classes of cases, which may be enumerated 
as follows: 

i. Where the contract is actually being specifically performed. 

2. Where there is no specific performance of the contract, but 
where the court is called upon to determine what person or class 
of persons is entitled to the real estate which is the subject of the 
contract, on the one side, and the purchase money, which is obligated to be paid, on the other. 

In the first class of cases the court is engaged in actually compelling the conversion which by operation of the fiction of equitable conversion is supposed already to have taken place. In 
this class of cases, therefore, the utility of the fiction, as well as 
its soundness, may be tested by inquiring whether any different 
result would be reached by the application of accepted legal principles, without resort to the fiction of equitable conversion. 

The effect of the contract of sale of land has been stated to be 
that the vendor becomes a trustee of the land for the vendee and 
the vendee becomes a trustee of the purchase money for the vendor. 14 While this statement contains a germ of truth, it is obviously inaccurate, because the vendor is unlike a trustee in many 
particulars. He has a personal interest in the land; he is entitled 
to its rents, issues and profits until the date of performance; 15 
he holds the title as security for the payment of the purchase 
price ; 18 the proceeds of the insurance effected by him he holds for 
his own benefit and not the benefit of the vendee. 17 The vendee, on 
the other hand, is a mere debtor. He holds no specific property 
for the vendor, and his sole obligation in law and in equity is to 
pay the purchase money on the conveyance of the vendor's title. 
More accurately stated, the obligation of the vendor in equity is 
to convey land to the vendee. The vendee is the owner of the 
correlative right in equity to have the vendor convey. Since, 
therefore, the vendee has an equitable right to the property of 
the vendor, he has an equitable right to restrain the vendor and 
those claiming under him from impairing that obligation. Thus 
he may restrain the conveyance of the land to third persons. 18 He 
may compel a purchaser from a vendor with notice or a donee 
without notice to convey the land in performance of the contract. 10 
He may compel the vendor to account for unhusbandlike conduct 
pending conveyance and he may restrain injury to the freehold by 
the vendor pending conveyance. 20 Since the vendee has an equitable right to call for a conveyance of the land, just as in the case 
of the law affecting the right of a cestui que trust of land, his 
right for purposes of devolution will be treated as land. The 
vendee's equitable right, therefore, in equity passes to his heir or 
devisee 21 and in jurisdictions where there is dower in an equitable 
right to land his widow is entitled to dower. 22 In each of these 
cases equity is only disposing of the rights of the parties in accordance with its settled rule with respect to equitable rights in 
real estate. The right of the beneficiary of a trust of land and 
the equitable right of the common law mortgagor of land, are 
for all purposes treated as real estate without resort to any principle of equitable conversion. Upon like principle the equitable right 
of the vendee to call for the land in the hands of the vendor should 
pass to the vendee's heirs, regardless of any theory of equitable 
conversion. 

The result, therefore, is that in the case of a contract for the 
sale of land, where both the vendor and the vendee are dead, the 
vendee's equitable right to the performance has descended to the 
heir, who has the right to specific performance. The obligation 
to convey, however, rests upon the vendor's heir, not because he 
is subject to obligations in contract, but because he is in the precise 
position of a donee of property held subject to an equitable 
obligation. He will not be permitted to retain the property in 
violation of that obligation any more than would a donee of trust 
property be permitted to retain it. 

The right to receive the purchase money, however, has at law 
vested in the personal representative of the vendor, since the legal 
ownership of the contract, which is personal property, passes to 
the personal representative and not the heir; and since the proceeds of the vendor's contract, by specific performance, is money, 
which is personal property, there is no equitable principle by which 
the personal representative of the vendor can- or should be deprived of the right to receive the purchase money. The equitable right to have the legal title of the vendor now in the vendor's heir held as security for the payment of the purchase price 
vests in the vendor's personal representative ^s incidental to the 
personal claim on the contract which he holds. 23 The vendee's 
personal representative is bound to pay the contract price for the 
simple reason that all obligations in contract as a matter of law 
fall and rest upon the personal representative of the deceased 
debtor or obligor. 

The final result, therefore, of the specific performance of the 
contract for the sale of land after the death of the vendor and 
vendee will be that the vendee's heir will be entitled to the conveyance because he is the heir of the one equitably entitled to 
real estate. The vendor's heir must convey because he holds property subject to his ancestor's equitable obligation to convey, and he 
cannot be in a better position than a donee of such property. A 
conveyance cannot be had without payment of the purchase price 
to the vendor's personal representative, who is legally entitled 
thereto, and who is equitably entitled to the security of the legal 
title. The vendee's personal representative must pay the purchase price, not only because he is the only person obligated to pay, 
but because payment must be made in order to finally dispose of 
the equitable rights of the vendee's heir and the obligation of the 
vendor's legal representative. All four parties are therefore necessary parties to the action for specific performance, the vendor's 
heir to give title; 24 the vendee's heir to receive the conveyance; 25 
the vendee's personal representative to pay the purchase price; 28 
and the vendor's personal representative to receive it. 27 

It is thus apparent that a result is reached commonly explained 
by the doctrine of equitable conversion, which nevertheless may 
be reached quite independently of it, and which really bears no 
relation to the assertion that the "sealing of the contract" renders 
the land the property of the vendee and the purchase money 
the property of the vendor. It may be suggested, however, that 
while the doctrine of equitable conversion serves no useful purpose in the cases under consideration, it at least does no harm and 
may serve in many cases as a convenient method of explaining the 
results actually reached. The difficulty with this view is that 
the test of equitable conversion, viz., the "sealing of a contract" 
for the sale of land, as will hereafter appear, breaks down wholly 
in those cases where by reason of defective title, failure to comply with the statute of frauds, hardship or a reserved right to 
rescind the contract, a defense is interposed to an action for the 
specific performance of the contract. In such cases, of course, 
there is never a specific performance and consequently there is 
no "equitable conversion." 

The inconsistency in which courts become involved by attempting a logical application of the doctrine of equitable conversion 
is exemplified in the case of option contracts. An option may be 
in legal effect a contract to enter into a bilateral contract for the 
sale of land upon the happening of a condition, that is, the exercise of the option, or it may be a unilateral contract to convey 
land to the option vendee upon the payment of a stipulated sum 
of money. As Professor Langdell has pointed out, 28 an option 
to convey on the payment of a sum of money technically does 
not contemplate the formation of a bilateral contract, but is a 
promise to convey upon the happening of a condition, viz., the 
payrnent of the stipulated price which is concurrent with, and 
given in exchange for, the vendor's obligation to convey. Courts 
have, however, very generally treated such contracts as conditional 
offers to enter into a bilateral contract, upon the happening of a 
stipulated condition evidencing the option vendee's intention to 
exercise the option. 

In practice, option contracts are usually so drawn as to provide 
for the creation of a bilateral contract on the happening of the 
stipulated condition. Thus, the vendor agrees to sell at a stipulated price if the vendee shall give notice of his intention to exercise his option within a stipulated period, and the vendee agrees, 
in the event of his giving notice to purchase the land and pay the 
stipulated price therefor. The result is that if the vendee exercises his option there is a binding bilateral contract for the sale 
of land from the time when the notice is given. 

Since the equitable conversion will result only from a contract for the sale of land it is obvious that the mere giving of an 
option will not work an equitable conversion. Since the rights 
of the vendor and vendee are contingent, it will follow that according to the doctrine of conversion the nature of the property, which 
is dependent upon those rights, will remain uncertain until the 
option is exercised. If the option is never exercised, then an 
equitable conversion will never take place. But upon the exercise 
of the option the obligation of the vendor becomes fixed, and 
according to the doctrine of equitable conversion the land is then 
converted into personalty in the hands of the vendor, and into 
realty in the hands of the vendee. 

The problem, however, is not so simple if the vendor dies 
pending the exercise of the option. Until the exercise of the 
option the vendor's heir is of course entitled, both legally and 
equitably, to the property as land. If, however, the vendee exercises his option, he, because of the principles of specific performance in equity, becomes equitably entitled to the land and 
can compel a conveyance on payment of the purchase price. 29 The 
vendor's heir also must convey the property on the exercise of the 
option, for the same reason that the purchaser with notice, or a 
donee of property held subject to an option must convey upon the 
exercise of the option. 30 But what disposition shall be made of 
the purchase price ? If the doctrine of equitable conversion is controlling, it would seem to follow that since the conversion took 
place only on the exercise of the option and after the vendor's 
heir became entitled, that he, and not the personal representative, 
would be entitled to the proceeds of the sale as personalty. 31 Disregarding this .theory of equitable conversion, the courts have 
nevertheless generally reached a different conclusion, viz., that 
the right to receive the purchase money, even in case of option 
contracts, passes to the personal representative and not to the 
heir. 32 Not a little embarrassment has been experienced in the 
effort to harmonize this result with the theory of equitable conversion. The impossible has been attempted by resorting to the 
convenient fiction of relation. The conversion effected by the 
exercise of the option is said to relate back to the date of the 
option and thus entitle the personal representative to the purchase 
money. 33 The fallacy of such use of a legal fiction has been 
pointed out. Legal fictions are often relied upon by courts to 
prevent a failure of justice, but it is believed that no other case 
will be found in the books where courts have made use of a 
fiction for the purpose of divesting rights deemed to have been honestly acquired. If, therefore, in the case under consideration, the heir 
is entitled to receive the purchase money, it is a highly artificial 
and unjustifiable process of reasoning by which a legal fiction is 
invoked, for the purpose of destroying an assumed right of the 
heir to the purchase money. It is believed, however, that this assumption is unwarranted and that the right of the personal representative to receive the purchase money does not rest upon such an 
unsubstantial foundation. His right is based, not upon the artificial doctrine of equitable conversion, but upon the principles 
of the devolution of decedent's property. 34 In the case of an 
option contract resulting in a bilateral contract for the sale of the 
vendor's property, it could not be successfully denied that the 
right to receive the purchase money on the exercise of the option 
vested in the personal representative of the vendor, for the reason that the right to recover on the contract, being personal property, vests in the executor or administrator and not in the heir. 
But it has been suggested that in the case of an option resulting 
in a unilateral contract, since the vendor would have no right 
to an action for the purchase money, his personal representative would likewise have no action to recover the purchase 
money, and therefore would have no right to receive it if the 
purchase money were actually paid. 30 In arriving at this conclusion it has been assumed that the right of the executor to receive money or personal property rests upon the existence of enforceable rights vested or contingent in the executor; that therefore, in the case of a contingent bilateral contract for the sale of 
land, upon the happening of the contingency, after the death of 
the vendor, the vendor's executor would nevertheless be entitled 
to enforce the contract and receive the proceeds of sale, whereas 
in the case of the unilateral contract of sale the vendor's personal 
representative would not be entitled to receive the proceeds of the 
contract, because he had no enforceable right against the vendee. 
This conclusion rests upon an arbitrary distinction between the right of the executor to have vested in him an enforceable claim 
or chose in action, for the creation of which no obligation exists, 
and his right to receive or have vested in him, personal property, 
which is given or tendered pursuant to the terms of the contract, 
in order to render the vendor's promise obligatory, but for the 
payment or delivery of which no obligation exists. If the right to 
enforce the vendee's promise, performance of which must be in 
equity mutual and concurrent with the performance of the vendor's promise, vests in the personal representative of the vendor 
because it is personal property, why also should not the purchase 
money, payment of which in equity must be mutual and concurrent with the performance of the vendor's promise to convey, 
vest upon its payment in the personal representative of the vendor ? If the vendee tendered the contract price and then brought 
an action for specific performance, equity would decree a conveyance only on payment of the purchase price to the vendor. 

Further, this suggestion ignores the fact that in both cases 
the money paid is the proceeds and a legal incident of the contract, 
which so far as it is property at all, is personal property and therefore passes to the personal representative. If, for example, the 
vendee brought his action at law for damages for non-performance of the contract, he would be bound to bring it against the personal representative of the vendor. It could hardly be argued that 
in order thus to establish his legal right to a performance of the 
contract he should prove a tender of the purchase price to the 
heir, who is a stranger to the contract, instead of to the personal 
representative, who is the legal representative and stands in the 
place of the vendor. The purchase money is tendered to fix the 
obligation to convey. It is given in exchange for the land to the 
same extent as the purchase money is given in performance of a 
bilateral contract, yet in the latter case the tender would not be 
made to the heir although he would be bound to convey upon 
equitable principles already mentioned. 

If follows, therefore, that whether an option contract be regarded as a conditional unilateral contract, or 'a conditional contract for the creation of a bilateral contract, the purchase money 
when paid is personal property, the proceeds of a contract, and 
as such belongs legally to the personal representatives of the vendor, unless, of course, the contract itself stipulates for the payment 
to the heir. 

Thus it would seem that both on principle and authority the doctrine of equitable conversion is not controlling in this class of 
cases when the contract is actually being performed, and tends to 
confuse rather than to elucidate the principles which should control the disposition of the property involved in a contract for the 
sale of land in the event of actual performance. 36 

The futility of attempting to base any judicial decision on the 
doctrine of equitable conversion by contract, could not be better 
illustrated than by the course of the litigation in Rockland Company v. Leary, lately decided by the New York Court of Appeals. 37 
In that case A leased his land to the plaintiff, the lease containing 
an option to the plaintiff to purchase the leased premises upon 
giving notice to A or his legal representatives and paying the 
purchase price within a stipulated period thereafter. Before exercise of the option A died, leaving a widow (who was appointed 
administratrix) and heirs, all of whom were party defendants 
in the action. Plaintiff gave notice to the administratrix of the 
exercise of his option and thereafter brought his action for 
specific performance. The action was twice tried. On the second trial at Special Term, the court found as conclusions of 
law that the option was properly exercised, that specific performance should be had by the heirs executing a conveyance 
to plaintiff and by plaintiff paying the purchase money to the 
administratrix. Each of these conclusions was duly excepted 
to by the defendants and judgment entered accordingly. On 
appeal, the Appellate Division affirmed the judgment, doubtless on the basis of its previous opinion in the case, 38 namely 
that by the exercise of the option there was a conversion of the 
property which it was held by relation antedated the lessor's 
death. 39 On appeal to the Court of Appeals, the Court repudiated 
the doctrine of conversion by relation and severely criticised the 
doctrine of Lowes v. Bennett, and cases following it. It nevertheless held that the option had been properly exercised on the 
ground that if the phrase in the contract "legal representatives" 
meant the administratrix, then notice had been given to her. If the phrase meant heirs, then that requirement was met by a notice 
which had been given to one of the adult heirs. The Court accordingly affirmed the judgment which awarded the purchase 
money to the administratrix. Thus, after the case had received 
the consideration of five courts with the aid of elaborate discussions of the doctrine of equitable conversion, in the course of 
which different conclusions were reached by different courts, a 
judgment was finally affirmed which was inconsistent with any one 
theory of equitable conversion. The actual result, however, which 
is believed to be sound, must necessarily have been reached by the 
application of the equitable principles heretofore considered. Notice should have been given to the administratrix because it was 
given to fix the liability under the contract, and she was the successor to and bound by her intestate's obligation under the contract. 
She was entitled to proceeds of the contract as personalty. The 
heir was bound to convey not because he was bound by the contract but because he was in the position of a donee of property 
held subject to an equitable obligation. 

It remains to inquire what application, if any, may be given to 
the doctrine of equitable conversion by contract for the sale of 
land when such contract is never actually performed. Since the 
very existence of an equitable conversion presupposes a contract 
which equity will specifically enforce, and since the specific performance of the contract for the sale of land always rests in the 
sound discretion of the court, it might be supposed that there 
could never be any equitable conversion apart from an actual decree directing specific performance when, of course, as has already 
been pointed out, the doctrine of equitable conversion becomes a 
perfectly useless fiction leading to no results and not even adequately explaining the results which are reached. It is believed 
that theoretically this is a correct statement of the controlling 
principle, and that the exceptions to it are more apparent than real 
and in any event do not rest upon the so-called doctrine of equitable conversion. It is obvious that in the case of an option contract, if the option is never exercised, there can be no equitable 
conversion, 40 or if the vendor and vendee voluntarily rescind the 
contract, there could be no equitable conversion. The same result 
would follow if the rescission took place after the death of the 
vendor and the vendee. Since, however, the vendee's heir has an 
equitable right to the performance of the contract, the personal 
representatives of the vendor and vendee would not in equity be 
permitted to defeat the right of the vendee's heir without his 
consent. 41 

In the case of rescission a distinction is to be made when the 
right of rescission rests upon a new contract between the parties 
and when the right is inherent in the contract either by its terms 
or by reason of facts affecting or inducing its execution. Thus if 
the contract is free from legal or equitable defenses, the right of 
rescission rests only upon a new contract. Consequently the vendee's heir may claim the purchase money as a condition of his consent to a rescission, or if the rescission is made without his consent, 
he may claim of the vendee's executor the purchase money in 
liquidation of his claim for the interference with his equitable 
right to a specific performance. 42 When, however, the right to 
rescind is inherent in the contract, either by its terms or because 
procured or induced by fraud, there should be no conversion if the 
contract is rescinded. 43 

So also if the vendor's title proves to be defective, there could 
be no performance and consequently no conversion of the property, 44 unless the vendee waived the defect, in which case there 
might be a specific performance resulting in an equitable conversion. In the same way a contract not complying with the Statute 
of Frauds, will not work an equitable conversion and the parties 
will be left to their rights at law. 45 In each of the cases supposed, 
it is clear that without a specific performance there is no opportunity for the application of the doctrine of conversion, and in each 
case the rights of heirs and legal representatives respectively are 
disposed of in accordance with the rules of law. 

There is, however, a limited class of cases in which there can be 
no specific performance in which the heir of the vendee is nevertheless held to be entitled to have the purchase money, or the 
personal representatives of the vendor are entitled to have the 
vendor's land in the hands of the heir sold, and the proceeds 
turned over to them as personalty. The reason usually attributed 
is that the contract of sale has worked a conversion, so that property in the hands of the vendor is personalty. The inadequacy of 
this explanation is apparent when account is taken of the cases in 
which a conversion fails because for one reason or another the 
contract cannot be specifically performed, and one who attempts to 
apply the doctrine of conversion to them logically, at once becomes 
involved in inconsistencies. 

In all these cases, however, it will be found that a contract was 
entered into specifically enforceable in equity, that the contract 
failed of performance because of the default or laches of the 
vendor's heir on one hand, or the vendee's personal representatives 
on the other. Thus where the contract was not specifically performed because of laches, it was nevertheless held that the vendor's next of kin were entitled to have the real estate sold and 
distributed among them as personalty.* 8 Where the vendee's personal representative was unable to carry out the contract the heir 
was held to be entitled to the purchase money, or so much of it as 
was in the hands of the personal representative. 47 

Bearing in mind the legal and equitable right of the vendor's 
legal representatives to have the contract performed and to receive 
the benefit thereof, and the equitable right of the vendee's heir 
to have the contract performed, and to have the land contracted 
to be sold, it is obvious that their rights in the event that the contract cannot be specifically performed by reason of the default of 
the vendor's heir on the one hand, or the vendee's personal 
representatives on the other, do not depend on any theory of 
equitable conversion, but rather on simple principles of equity of 
practically universal application. The vendor's personal representative has both a legal and equitable right to have the contract performed by compelling the vendor's heir to convey. In equity he may 
file a bill to have the property in the hands of the heir treated as security and sold as upon foreclosure. 48 This right, if lost in the 
case under consideration, is lost by the laches or default of the 
heir. Thus while the vendee may resist specific performance because of the laches or default of the vendor's heir, this is a personal 
defense available to him alone. To permit the vendor's heir to 
defeat the right of the personal representative by his laches, would 
enable him to enrich himself at the expense of the personal representative, by reason of his own failure to perform an equitable 
obligation. Equity never permits a defendant to enrich himself 
at the plaintiff's expense by depriving plaintiff of equitable rights 
through his, the defendant's own laches or misconduct. The vendee's personal representative cannot enrich himself at the expense 
of the vendee's heir as a reward for his default, and it is for this 
reason that the heir may in that case compel payment to him of 
the purchase price. 49 

It may be suggested that a distinction should be drawn between 
the case where the contract failed of specific performance, because 
of the default of a party, and the case where the specific performance failed because the vendor had reserved a right to rescind on 
the happening of an event. In the latter case the vendor contemplated the possibility that the contract might not be performed 
and specifically reserved the right to terminate it. The vendee's 
heir cannot complain of the exercise of this right since it involves 
no breach of any legal or equitable obligation of contract on the 
part of the vendee's personal representatives and consequently the 
vendee's heir should have no claim on the purchase money, although he would have such a claim if performance failed because 
of the default of the vendee's legal representative. 50 

It is thus apparent that the cases hitherto considered not only 
do not rest upon any doctrine of equitable conversion, but that 
it is not a safe or intelligible guide to the results actually reached 
by the decisions. 

There still remains for consideration the case where, pending 
performance of the contract for the sale of land, a substantial part 
of the subject matter of the contract, for example, buildings or 
improvements, are destroyed without the fault of the vendor. By 
the weight of authority the "burden of loss" is held to fall on the 
vendee. 01 Various theories have been advanced as adequately explaining a result which doubtless in many cases is the reverse of 
the intention of the parties, and in all is contrary to the results 
reached by courts of law. The explanations which do not frankly 
rest on fiction are based upon the fundamental notion that since in 
equity the vendee is for some purposes, dealt with as an owner of 
the realty he should be so dealt with for all purposes, and that consequently the loss should fall on him, just as the burden of loss 
of trust property must fall on cestui que trust, that is to say, in 
equity the vendee's right is treated as an interest in land. 02 

So much has been written on this subject that it is perhaps almost an impertinence to add to the mass of literature dealing with 
it. 53 It is believed, however, that in the explanation and justification of this doctrine certain principles have been overlooked, which should have had a controlling influence in settling 
the question. 

To recur to the preceding discussion, we have seen that in 
every case where we have found a case of so-called equitable conversion, it is either a case where the contract is being actually 
performed by a court of equity, or the failure to perform it is due 
to the default of a party to the contract, who would thereby enrich 
himself at the expense of the person equitably entitled to the land on the one side, or its proceeds on the other, unless in equity he 
were deprived of the land or the proceeds by reason of his default. It is evident that in the first case, any fact which prevents 
a specific performance prevents the equitable conversion, and the 
parties are left wholly to their rights and obligations at law. This 
principle is subject to the exception of the second case, that one 
equitably obligated to perform the contract, may not enrich himself by his failure to perform it. It is thus apparent that the 
theory of equitable ownership of land, subject to a contract of 
sale, is literally an incident of the right of specific performance, 
and cannot exist apart from it." A preliminary to the determination of the question whether there is equitable ownership of land 
must therefore necessarily be the determination of the question 
whether there is a contract which can be and ought to be specifically performed at the very time when the court is called upon to 
perform it. This process of reasoning is, however, reversed in 
those jurisdictions where the "burden of loss" is cast upon the 
vendee. The question is whether there shall be a specific performance of the contract, thus casting the burden on the vendee, by 
compelling him to pay the full purchase price for the subject 
matter of the contract, a substantial part of which has been destroyed. The question is answered somewhat in this wise: equitable ownership of the vendee in the subject matter of the contract can exist only where the contract is one which equity will 
specifically perform. The vendee of land is equitably entitled to 
land, therefore the vendee may be compelled to perform, although 
the vendor is unable to give in return the performance stipulated 
for by his contract. The non sequitur involved in the proposition 
that performance may be had because of the equitable ownership 
of the land by the vendee, which in turn depends upon the right 
of performance, is evident. The doctrine of equitable conversion, 
so far as it is exemplified by the authorities hitherto considered, 
cannot lead to the result of casting the burden of loss on the 
vendee, since the conversion depends upon the question whether 
the contract should in equity be performed. In all other cases 
where the vendee is treated as the equitable owner of the land, it is only because the contract is one which equity first determines 
should be specifically performed. 

Whether a plaintiff, in breach of his contract by a default which 
goes to the essence, as in the case of the destruction of a substantial part of the subject matter of the contract, should be entitled 
to specific performance, is a question which is answered in the 
negative in every case except that of destruction of the subject 
matter of the contract. To give a plaintiff specific performance of 
the contract when he is unable to perform the contract on his own 
part, violates the fundamental rule of equity that the remedies must 
be mutual, and that equity will not compel a defendant to perform 
when it is unable to so frame its decree as to compel the plaintiff 
to give in return substantially what he has undertaken to give or 
to do for the defendant. 

The rule of casting the "burden of loss" on the vendee by 
specific performance if justifiable at all can only be explained and 
justified upon one of two theories: first, that since equity has 
for most purposes treated the vendee as the equitable owner, it 
should do so for all purposes, although this ignores the fact that in 
all other cases the vendee is so treated only because the contract 
is either being performed or in equity ought to be performed ; or, 
second, which is substantially the same proposition in a different 
form, the specific performance which casts the burden on the vendee 
is an incident to and a consequence of an equitable conversion, 
whereas in all other equity relations growing out of- the contract, 
the equitable conversion, if it exists, is an incident to and consequence of, a specific performance. Certainly nothing could 
be more illogical than this process of reasoning. The inconvenience of the doctrine is sufficiently attested by the now almost 
universal practice of stipulating in the contract of sale that the 
loss, if any, pending conveyance, shall fall on the vendor. 

It has been said that the decisions in the cases relating to equitable conversion cannot be reconciled with any consistent principle, and "the result is that the student is faced with the necessity 
of committing to memory a long series of complicated rules which 
are merely arbitrary." 65 A survey of the whole subject in the 
case of equitable conversion by contract, however, hardly justifies 
this statement. The decisions are harmonious when considered in 
the light of fundamental equitable principles, except upon the question of "burden of loss," on which point the authorities are divided. 

Inconsistencies arise only when one attempts a too literal application of the fiction of equitable conversion, as it was stated by 
Lord Eldon as a substitute for equitable principles which the fiction always imperfectly and usually inaccurately represents. Most 
of the difficulties and perplexities which attend the disposition of 
rights arising under contracts from the sale of land would never 
have risen had this fiction never been invented. The student, 
therefore, should not attempt to memorize a long series of complicated rules relating to a useless fiction, which are merely arbitrary, but he should seek to ascertain the nature of the rights 
created by a contract specifically enforceable in equity, and the 
principles which govern the disposition of those rights when once 
called into existence. 

Harlan F. Stone. 
Columbia University. 
