THE "EQUITABLE MORTGAGE" IN NEW YORK 

The common law provided no device for giving security for 
the -payment of a debt or obligation except by a vesting the 
possession of the res, given as security, in the creditor or by the 
transfer of a legal interest in it to the creditor. When the legal 
interest was transferred, as in the case of the common law mortgage of realty or chattels, the transferee became vested with a 
real right in rem subject only to a termination of the legal interest 
by payment of the debt or obligation when due. This right in rem 
carried, with it so far as legal rules were concerned all of the 
benefits and burdens of ownership, and it was only through the 
device of the bill to redeem and of the bill to restrain waste and for 
an accounting in equity that the legal rights and possession of the 
security holder were curtailed by compelling their exercise for 
the benefit of the debtor once the satisfaction of the debt was 
provided for. The common law pledge originally was regarded 
as giving the pledgee a mere right of possession, similar to the 
common law lien, but with the expansion of the rights of the 
pledgee by giving him the right to transfer his pledge and, under 
the doctrine of Donald v. Stickling, 1 even to repledge the pledged 
chattel for a larger amount than that of the original pledge, without converting the subject of the pledge, the right of the pledgee 
took on more completely the character of a legal right in rem. 
The common law as it became a developed system evolved no 
doctrine of "real obligation" or lien under which the debtor 
retained possession of the security, such as the conventional 
hypotheca as it was worked out by the Roman Law. 2 

In early English law there were traces of such a doctrine. 
Glanville 3 gives examples of common law writs both to foreclose 
and to redeem a pledge of lands of which the pledgor retained 
possession. Apparently the pledge could be accomplished without placing the pledgee in possession and Glanville states it as law 
that the pledgee did not gain seizin of the pledged lands. 

But by the time of Littleton, 4 the only form of common law 
security of land and of chattels was the mortgage or in the case 
of chattels the pledge which was created by vesting possession 
of the pledged chattels in the pledgee. Both were legal relationships giving rise to no primary equitable rights so far as the mortgage or pledge relationship was concerned. It was only with the 
invention of the bill to redeem in 1625 that the relationship became 
a subject of equitable cognizance. 5 

The Roman notion of lien by conventional hypotheca found its 
way into English law in the form of the Admiralty lien and in the 
statutory form of security by recognizance in the nature of statute 
staple, and the eligit which was the forerunner of the modern 
judgment lien bore some resemblance to it. 6 

In modern law we have adopted the doctrine of the tacit 
hypotheca, (i. e., lien with possession in the debtor imposed by 
law regardless of agreement 7 ) in the case of the mechanic's lien, 
and in the various types of statutory lien on chattels under which 
the debtor is permitted to remain in possession of the subject of 
lien. 8 The modern judgment lien had no common law basis and 
is strictly statutory having its origin in the statutes of Westminster II (13 Edw. I, c. 18) . 9 It remained for the courts of 
equity to work out a system of security analogous to the hypotheca 
by which the creditor acquired neither possession nor a legal right 
in the subject of security and under which his equitable right 
was a right in personam, by appropriate remedy to compel the 
debtor to apply the subject of security to the payment of the debt. 
This form of security is generally described as the equitable mortgage or lien 10 since the rights conferred by it are exclusively 
sequitable as distinguished from the legal interest conferred by the 
common law type of mortgage which, even in the lien state confers 
some legal rights although the practical consequence of it is, as in 
the case of the common law mortgage, to secure payment of the 
debt, by the sale of the property held subject to the mortgage and 
the appropriation of the proceeds to the payment of the debt. 

This form of security may be classified into the equitable 
mortgage or lien which is quasi-contractual in its origin and the 
equitable mortgage which is based on consensus or agreement of 
the parties to it. The former is based on the duty and power of 
equity to compel restitution in those cases where the property of one 
is improved or added to by another, induced by fraud or mistake 
under such circumstances as to entitle him to equitable relief. 11 
In such cases the relief may take the form of a lien imposed by 
equity on the property improved on principles analogous to the 
general right of recovery in quasi-contract. 

The latter in the final analysis will be found to be a special 
application of the doctrine of specific performance to agreements 
to give security. Equity does not generally enforce contracts 
either to give or receive a loan of money. 12 While the damages 
for breach of such a contract may be inadequate, the inadequacy 
is almost directly proportionate to the probability that the loan may 
not be repaid at maturity. Equity therefore in this as in many 
other cases refuses its relief because greater injustice may result 
from the exercise of its jurisdiction than would result from leaving 
the parties to their rights at law. Once, however, the lender has 
made his advance to the borrower relying on the promise of the 
borrower to give security, equity may give complete relief by compelling specific performance of the promise. There can be no 
adequate remedy at law since legal damages would be speculative 
depending on the future ability of the debtor to pay and the future 
need and value of the security. Equity will thus compel performance of the agreement to give security regardless of its particular 
form. The agreement may be to give a formal mortgage of specific property or that particular land or property will be held by the 
borrower as security to the lender, and in all cases the ultimate 
relief is the foreclosure and sale of the property. It is upon the 
like principle that a mortgage so defectively or informally executed 
as not to operate as a legal mortgage or to cover property intended 
to be described in it may be made effective as an equitable mortgage. 13 Underlying the defective instrument of transfer is the 
agreement that some specific property shall be mortgaged and it 
is this agreement which equity specifically enforces. 14 The equitable 
mortgage by pledge of title deeds which is a recognized form of 
equitable security in England rests upon a similar basis. The 
equitable right to security is recognized and enforced because the 
borrower impliedly agrees that the land described in the pledged 
deed shall stand as security for his debt. 15 

The agreement may be informal, 104 and in New York at least it 
seems to be settled that the performance by the lender in advancing 
his money is sufficient to take the case out of the Statute of 
Frauds. 16 On settled principles of equity the equitable mortgage 
should be deemed to be valid and enforceable not only against the 
equitable mortgagor, but against all subsequent transferees of the 
mortgaged property except bona fide purchasers. And this is the 
rule of the New York courts with respect to equitable mortgages 
of land 17 except in so far as the rules of common law are modified 
by the recording acts. In Mathews v. Damainville, 1 * it was held 
that a contract for a mortgage, performance to be contingent upon 
a future event, duly reduced to writing and recorded, will not be 
upheld as a lien against purchasers in good faith ; that the record 
of the contract did not operate to give constructive notice of the 
lien since it was not a conveyance within the meaning of the 
recording act. Section 290, sub-division 2, of the New York Real 
Property Law, which defines conveyances which may be recorded, 
provides that a conveyance within the meaning of the recording 
act includes "every written instrument by which the title to any 
real property may be affected". The precise question seems not to 
have been since raised in the courts of New York, and in view of 
the fact that it has not reached the court of last resort and that 
there is authority favoring a different view, 19 this decision cannot 
be regarded as finally disposing of the question. 

The equitable mortgage of land is enforceable against the mortgagor and an attaching or levying creditor of the mortgagor. 20 It 
is enforceable against all subsequent takers with notice. 21 If the 
mortgagee goes into possession with the consent of the equitable 
mortgagor he may set up his equitable mortgage as an equitable 
defense to ejectment by the mortgagee whose only remedy is a bill 
to redeem or a bill for an accounting. 22 On principle, since equitable rights cannot generally be created in favor of a volunteer, it 
would seem that an equitable mortgage cannot be created without 
consideration or to secure a past indebtedness when there is no 
agreement for extension, or forbearance by the mortgagee. This 
was the decision in Dempsey v. McKenna. 23 In this respect the equitable mortgage is to be contrasted with the lien theory of the 
New York legal mortgage. Although so far as legal rights of the 
mortgagee in New York are concerned he is treated as having a 
mere lien without any of the incidents of legal ownership ascribed 
by the common law to the mortgagee, 21 he is nevertheless deemed 
to acquire a sufficient legal interest in the mortgaged property by 
virtue of the mortgage conveyance to enable the mortgagor to make 
a gift of the mortgage to the mortgagee, 25 and it is well settled 
that a valid legal mortgage may be given to secure a past 
indebtedness without any new consideration or any forbearance or extension of the debt by the mortgagee, and such a 
mortgage will rank in the order of its priority over subsequent 
liens given for value. 28 Such a mortgage, however, does not 
rank as a purchaser for value so as to cut off prior equities. 27 
The distinction appears to be that between the executed gift which 
equity protects when it is once vested in the donee and the executory obligation which equity does not generally create unless consideration be given for it. 

Equitable mortgages, like other equitable claims, rank in the 
order of their priority in time, whereas the equitable mortgage may 
be cut off by the subsequent legal mortgage for value. Since the 
legal mortgagee having acquired a legal interest in the mortgaged 
property may assert the rights of a bona fide purchaser. 28 

In the case of equitable security upon personal property the New York decisions have not adhered so strictly to principle as it 
has been worked out in the case of the equitable mortgage of land. 
In the absence of controlling statutes the equitable mortgage of 
personal property should be subject to the same rules as equitable 
security in land. This is the result reached in England and very 
generally in the other states of this country, but by a series of decisions of our courts, and by legislation, the rule of the equitable mortgage as applied to land has been extensively modified in its application to personal property. The equitable mortgage of chattels is 
recognized in New York as creating no legal rights but as conferring on the mortgagee the right in equity to demand of the 
mortgagor the benefit of the security agreed to be given. 

Questions as to this form of security have most frequently 
arisen in connection with the so-called mortgage of after acquired 
property. It is the settled rule of the common law that a grant 
of chattels of which the grantor had neither title nor possession 
at the time of grant passes no interest to the grantee even though 
the grantor subsequently acquires the chattels described in the 
instrument of transfer. Thus there can be no present sale or 
mortgage of after acquired property effective to pass any legal 
interest to the vendee or mortgagee. 20 Such a mortgage, however, 
may operate as an implied contract to sell or give a mortgage, and 
thus be brought within the principle already discussed of a lien 
growing out of agreement specifically enforceable in equity, against 
both the promisor and subsequent creditors and purchasers with 
notice. 

This doctrine was established in Holroyd v. Marshall, 30 which 

M An exception to this rule of common law is the anomalous doctrine of 
potential property, such as < crops not yet grown or the increase of animals 
not yet in esse, title to which may be passed by a grant or contract of sale 
made in advance of the physical existence of the subject of grant or sale. 
Grantham v. Hawley (1615) Hobart 132. 

A mortgage of potential chattels not actually in existence, therefore, 
passes a_ legal interest to the mortgagee who may maintain a legal possessory action for the chattels when they come into existence. Rochester v. 
Rasey (1894) 142 N. Y. 570, 37 N. E. 632. 

By Section 86 of the New York Uniform Sales Act it is provided that 
when the parties purport to effect a present sale_ of future goods the agreement operates as a contract to sell goods. This section is generally considered to have abolished the doctrine of sales of potential goods, but Section 155 of the Sales Act expressly provides that the Uniform Sales Act 
does not apply to mortgages, so that an effective legal mortgage on potential 
goods may apparently still be made in New York although it would not be 
possible under Section 86 to make a present sale of such property. 
has been generally followed as sound law. 31 In New York the 
doctrine was recognized in McCaffray v. Woodin 32 when the question arose between the parties to the agreement, and in Wisner v. 
Ocumpaugh 33 when the lien was enforced against a purchaser with 
notice, and in Coats v. Donnell 3 * when the lien was upheld against 
creditors. In Kribbs v. Alvord 3 \ the doctrine was fully developed 
in accordance with principle. In this case a mortgage was given 
by the plaintiff's lessee to the plaintiff on chattels, which might 
thereafter be placed on the leased premises by the lessee, as 
security for the rent. The mortgage was duly recorded as a mortgage of chattels. Thereafter the lessee brought chattels upon the 
leased premises which he subsequently sold to the defendants. In 
an action brought by the plaintiff to impress the mortgage lien 
upon the after acquired chattels, it was held that the plaintiff could 
succeed. The court held that although the mortgage did not 
operate on the legal title to the after acquired chattels, it could 
be supported as an agreement for security conferring equitable 
rights on the mortgagee. The court said: 

"Invalidity at law imports nothing more than that a mortgage 
of property thereafter to be acquired is ineffectual as a grant to 
pass the legal title. A court of equity, in giving effect to such a 
provision, does not put itself in conflict with that principle. It 
does not hold that a conveyance of that which does not exist 
operates as present transfer in equity, any more than it does in 
law. But it construes the instrument as operating by way of 
present contract to give a lien, which, as between the parties, takes 
effect and attaches to the subject of it as soon as it comes into 
the ownership of the party. Such we deem the rule to be in 
equity in this State." 3511 

The fact that the defendant had no actual notice of the mortgage 
and had purchased the property in good faith, the court deemed 
immaterial since the mortgage was recorded and the purchasers 
from the mortgagor were "therefore chargeable with constructive 
notice and the Hen of the plaintiff is not affected by their failure 
to find the mortgage." This case would seem to have established 
the equitable mortgage of chattels in New York on the same basis 
as the equitable mortgage of realty, subject only to the requirement of the chattel mortgage recording act that such a mortgage 
must be filed in order to give it validity against purchasers in good 
faith and creditors. 

Kribbs v. Alvord was followed by the decision in Rochester v. 
Rasey which has had a far reaching effect upon the doctrine of 
the equitable mortgage of chattels in New York. In this case the 
plaintiff brought an action for the conversion of chattels which he 
had purchased at a judgment creditor's sale. The defendant 
claimed the same chattels under a chattel mortgage covering after 
acquired chattels, which he had taken into possession claiming 
under his mortgage. The court held that the plaintiff was entitled 
to recover, resting its decision on three grounds: (1) that the 
action was at law with respect to the "strictly legal rights of the 
two contending creditors" and that the defendant could not, therefore, in such an action set up equitable rights to the property; 
(2) that the equitable mortgage only had validity as between the 
parties to the contract, citing Kribbs v. Alvord 37 as authority, and, 
hence, it could not be set up against a levying creditor of the mortgagor; (3) that the statute provides for filing a chattel mortgage as "a substitute for an immediate delivery or an actual 
and continued change of possession of the things mortgaged", 
and that such provision must be deemed to exclude the idea 
of a chattel mortgage upon non-existent things or that such 
an instrument could operate to defeat the lien of an attaching or execution creditor. The first two of these grounds 
of decision were obviously untenable. The equitable defense had 
been authorized by Section 507 of the Code of Civil Procedure 
for many years, before the decision in this case. An equitable 
mortgage as a defense to a possessory action had previously actually 
been pleaded successfully in the case both of land 38 and of chattels. 39 
Kribbs v. Alvord i0 did more than determine the validity of' the 
equitable mortgage of after acquired chattels between the parties 
to the mortgage. It actually impressed the lien of the equitable 
mortgage on the mortgaged property in the hands of a purchaser 
in good faith who was affected with constructive notice only because 
the mortgage had been recorded. The objection that the equitable 
mortgage of after acquired property was not within the chattel 
mortgage recording act presented an arguable question, although 
it had been decided in the negative in Kribbs v. Alvord since the 
court had held in that case that the mortgage of after acquired 
goods was within the recording acts and that the record of it was 
constructive notice to subsequent purchasers. That there should 
be any distinction in the policy of the recording act or in principle 
between the rights of the de facto innocent purchaser and the 
creditor in the case of a recorded mortgage of future goods does 
not seem open to question. One who in good faith has advanced 
his money in the purchase of chattels in the possession of the mortgagor certainly should not be in any worse position than the levying 
creditor who has made no advance on the faith of them. That the 
purchaser who has bought in good faith should be chargeable with 
notice of the record of the mortgage of future chattels and should 
be subject to the mortgage, but that such a mortgage should not be 
valid and enforceable against an attaching creditor is a curious 
legal incongruity. 

Neither Kribbs v. Alvord* 1 nor Rochester v. Rasey* 2 has been 
overruled ; they have both been repeatedly cited by the New York 
courts with approval and they are apparently both law in New 
York. It follows that the mortgage of future goods, if duly 
recorded in accordance with the chattel mortgage law is valid and 
enforceable against subsequent purchasers whether with or without 
actual notice since the recordation of the mortgage is notice to 
purchasers. 43 

But such a mortgage even though recorded will have no validity 
against creditors who have acquired a lien by levy or through 
receivership or bankruptcy proceedings. 44 

If the reasoning of Rochester v. Rasey be accepted, that the 
real vice of the mortgage of after acquired chattels is that it conflicts with the policy of the recording act since that act contemplates only mortgages of existing chattels it would seem 
to follow that an agreement for security on a existing chattel 
or other equitable lien on chattels could be recorded as a mortgage or conveyance" intended to operate as a mortgage" 
within the meaning of Section 230 of the New York Lien Law 
and would be valid and enforceable against both purchasers with 
notice and levying creditors. 45 

It would also follow that equitable liens which are quasicontractual in origin and therefore not within the chattel mortgage 
recording act would be valid against creditors of the mortgagor 
even though not recorded. A striking example is to be found in 
Coman v. Lakey ie which although decided long before Rochester 
v. Rasey is not necessarily affected by the later decision. In that case 
the defendant took a purchase money chattel mortgage from a corporation which under the then existing statute had no power to give 
a chattel mortgage in consequence of which the mortgage was held 
to be void. Thereafter the plaintiff became a purchaser of the 
chattels at a judgment creditor's sale, after which the defendant 
took possession of the chattels claiming under his mortgage. In 
an action brought to recover for his conversion of the chattels, it 
was held that the defendant had a good equitable defense founded 
on his equitable lien based on his right to restitution of the chattels 
when the mortgage failed. Thus the opposite result was reached 
from that reached in Rochester v. Rasey, but distinguishable from 
it on the ground that the lien not arising from agreement of the 
parties, but by operation of law was not within the requirements 
of the recording act, or invalidated by it. 

A similar question may be raised with respect to agreements to 
pledge either present or future chattels when the chattels remain in 
the possession of the pledgor. Such agreements when taken as 
security for advances made are deemed to create equitable liens as 
between the parties which would entitle the lender to a specific 
pledge of the chattels referred to in the agreement. 47 Such agreements are deemed to give the lender a license to possess himself of 
the chattels and his possession once effected may be maintained 
against levying creditors, even though a substantial period of time 
has elapsed between the date of the agreement and the time of 
taking possession. 48 

A delivery of the chattels under such an agreement by the 
borrower to the lender cannot, therefore, be construed as in fraud 
of creditors. 40 Such agreements are obviously not intended to 
operate as chattel mortgages and it has been held that they are not 
within the meaning of the chattel mortgage recording law, requiring 
instruments intended to operate as chattel mortgages to be recorded 
in order to give them validity against levying creditors if the transfer of possession of the mortgaged chattels to the creditor be not 
"immediate." 50 

From this it would follow as a matter of technical legal reasoning 
that an unrecorded agreement to pledge specific chattels given for 
advances made would be valid and enforceable against levying 
creditors and of course purchasers, a result so inconsistent with the 
policy of the law as announced in Rochester v. Rasey and applied 
in cases following it that courts may be expected to avoid that 
result whenever the precise question arises. 51 

Upon the same reasoning the equitable mortgage on other forms 
of property than chattels not within the purview of the chattel 
mortgage recording act, the validity of which is consequently 
not dependent upon recording, may be expected to be valid and 
enforceable both against purchasers with notice and creditors. 

This we have already noted is the result in the case of the equitable 
mortgage of land. This should also be the rule in the case of 
mortgages or liens on present or future book accounts, choses in 
action or other intangibles not embraced by the term "chattels." 
That an equitable lien is created by the assignment of future book 
accounts is the law of New York. 82 This Hen attaches to the chose 
in action in the hands of purchasers since the assignee of the chose 
in action in New York takes subject to collateral equities. 53 It 
should follow that an unrecorded mortgage of future book accounts 
is valid and enforceable against creditors of the mortgagor. This 
seems to be the effect of certain New York decisions, 5 * and it is the 
rule of the Federal Courts sitting in the New York districts and 
applying the local law of security in bankruptcy cases, 55 Especially 
noteworthy was the case of Sexton v. Kessler** in which it was 
held that an unrecorded agreement to pledge specified afteracquired securities, which were retained by the borrower, entered 
into more than four months before bankruptcy, created an equitable 
lien in favor of the lender, and that delivery of the securities to the 
lender by the borrower within four months of bankruptcy did not 
constitute an unlawful preference within Section 60 of the Bankruptcy Act. The decision in this case was followed by an amendment in 1916, to Section 230 of the New York Lien Law, so as to 
render invalid as to creditors, a mortgage or pledge or lien upon 
stocks or bonds unless the mortgage or lien be recorded 
or the stocks or bonds pledged, be delivered to the pledgee 
on the day the loan is advanced or made. This amendment, however, left undisturbed the law affecting agreements to pledge choses 
in action or other intangibles, excluding stocks or bonds, as it of 
course left unaffected agreements for the pledge of chattels. 

The doctrine of Rochester v. Rasey is still further complicated 
by the doctrine of the New York Courts that the retention of mortgaged chattels by the mortgagor, even when the mortgage is recorded, with a power on the part of the mortgagor to sell the 
mortgaged chattels for his own benefit, is fraudulent and void as to 
creditors. 57 This doctrine although frequently criticized and discredited in many states is firmly entrenched in New York. It 
operates not only to render the mortgage of existing chattels unenforceable against creditors of the mortgagor but combined 
with the doctrine of Rochester v. Rasey it makes impossible the giving of any general lien or charge on a shifting stock of goods which is a well established form of security 
under the English law and in many of our states. It is to be 
observed that the doctrine that the power of sale by the mortgagor 
for his own benefit renders the mortgage void as to creditors, has no 
application under the New York decisions when the power is to 
sell for the benefit of the mortgagee and to account to him for the 
proceeds. 58 Nor does it apply when the agreement is that the 
mortgagor shall sell the mortgaged chattels and give a new mortgage 
to the original mortgagee on goods purchased with the proceeds, 59 
although under the doctrine of Rochester v. Rasey such an agreement with respect to after-acquired chattels would have no validity 
against levying creditors. It is thus probable that without the 
decision of Rochester v. Rasey our courts would have worked out a 
doctrine supporting the validity of the general lien as a floating 
charge on a shifting stock of merchandise. A commercial community could not long be deprived of so useful a legal device and 
an effort was made to supply it by Section 45 of the New York 
personal property law adopted in 1911. 

This statute authorized the creation of a general lien or floating 
charge upon merchandise including after-acquired chattels, to 
secure the payment of advances or commissions or other charges 
covered by the agreement for a lien, providing that such lien shall 
be valid against creditors provided certain formalities are observed, 
the most important of which are the posting and maintenance of a 
notice of the lien on the premises where the merchandise is located 
and the filing of a notice of the lien containing certain detailed 
information, in the office for filing chattel mortgages. The statute, 
contemplates the sale of the merchandise by the borrower who is 
authorized to retain possession since it provides for the acquisition 
of a lien upon accounts receivable resulting from the sale of the 
merchandise. The section may, therefore, be presumed to do away 
with the rule that retention of possession by the mortgagor with 
power of sale for his own benefit is fraudulent . as to creditors, 
providing all the formalities required by the section are complied 
with. The filing provisions are cumbersome and onerous and the 
privilege afforded by the statute has not been extensively used. 

In any discussion of the equitable mortgage in New York reference should be made to a- form of security customarily used by> 
commercial bankers and known as the "trust receipt". The practice has grown up especially in New York for the banker, who has 
accepted drafts with bill of lading attached for account of a" consignee or importer of merchandise, to deliver the merchandise to 
the consignee or importer in advance of the payment of the draft. 
On making the delivery the banker takes a "trust receipt" from the 
importer whereby he undertakes to hold the merchandise in trust 
for the banker, with power in the importer to sell it or manufacture and sell it and account for the proceeds to the banker. By this 
procedure payment of the draft is provided for from the proceeds 
of the merchandise, which the banker, upon familiar principles, held 
as security for the draft on its acceptance. The transaction bears 
certain superficial resemblances to the chattel mortgage or conditional sale, but it is distinguishable from both in its peculiar origin 
a particular type of mercantile transaction as well as by its form. 
Accordingly, it is held that such a transaction is not within the 
recording acts applicable to chattel mortgages and conditional 
sales, and that the banker's lien although not recorded and although 
it is not coupled with possession of the merchandise, is superior to 
the claims and liens of creditors or purchasers with notice. 60 

A brief summary of the present New York law as indicated by 
the decisions which have been discussed, will serve to emphasize 
the lack of harmony in the law with respect to the so called equitable mortgage or lien. 

1. The equitable mortgage of land is valid and enforceable 
against creditors of the mortgagor and purchasers with notice from 
the mortgagor, but apparently if recorded it is not within the 
recording act and its record will therefore not be constructive 
notice if it is in the form of a contract to give a mortgage. 

2. The equitable mortgage of chattels, including the mortgage 
of after acquired chattels, is valid and enforceable against purchasers from the mortgagor with notice and when recorded, the 
record is constructive notice to purchasers. 

3. The mortgage of after acquired chattels, although recorded, 
is not valid against attaching or levying creditors or the trustee in 
bankruptcy of the mortgagor although an equitable mortgage 
on existing chattels may be upheld against creditors if properly 
recorded. 

4. Agreements to pledge existing or future chattels, where the 
pledgor retains possession of the chattels, create equitable liens 
which are not within the recording acts and so far as judicial 
decisions and judicial reasoning now indicate the rule, they are 
valid against both purchasers with notice and creditors of the 
mortgagor. 

5. Equitable liens, quasi-contractual in character, although not 
recorded, are valid and enforceable against all subsequent takers 
from the mortgagor, both creditors and purchasers except bona 
fide purchasers. 

6. The equitable mortgage of choses in action or other intangibles, present or future, need not be recorded and they are valid 
and enforceable against creditors and against purchasers with or 
without notice (unless the subject of mortgage is a negotiable 
security). The single exception is found in the case of stocks and 
bonds which must be delivered to the lender, or the mortgage or 
the lien recorded in order to give it validity against creditors of 
the mortgagor. 

7. The lien by trust receipt, given to one who has accepted a 
draft with bill of lading attached covering the chattel described in 
the receipt, need not be recorded nor need the creditor retain possession of the chattels which are subject of the lien and it is valid 
and enforceable against creditors and against purchasers with 
notice. 


8. There is no provision under the New York law for a general lien or floating charge on a shifting stock of merchandise 
except under the cumbersome provisions of Section 45 of the Personal Property Law. 

In a commercial community the equitable lien or charge is of 
constantly increasing importance. With rights of general creditors 
properly protected as they are in New York by an adequate recording system there would seem to be no reason why such a lien 
should not be deemed capable of being recorded and when recorded 
be fully upheld and protected. In any event the curious inconsistencies and complications of the law relating to such security call for 
comprehensive reform and unification. 