II. 
Rights of Strangers to the Contract. 

Whatever the technical difficulties were at various periods in 
history of the law with respect to the transfer of a legal chose 
in action, equity from an early period in its history treated the 
equitable chose in action as freely transferable so that the transferee might enforce the claim in his own name. 1 That the assignment of the equitable chose in action operated so as to effect a 
complete transfer of it is indicated by the fact that courts of 
equity protected the assignee and enforced such claims in behalf 
of the assignor when transferred to a volunteer. 2 It has been 
argued with great force and persuasiveness that the rules of purchase for value should be applicable to the transfer of the equitable chose in action with respect to all collateral equitable claims, but this doctrine has found only a very limited acceptance in judicial decisions. 

The equitable right to the specific performance of a contract 
is one which, therefore, may be freely assigned unless the contract is interpreted to be one entered into exclusively for the personal benefit of the promisee, in which case, of course, equity will  not do violence to the terms of the contract by enforcing it in behalf of the assignee. Wherever the contract is bilateral and 
executory and has not been performed by the promisee, the requisites of the mutuality rule must be satisfied. This may be accomplished by joining the assignor promisor as a party to the 
litigation or by tendering performance by the assignee. A recent decision has denied to the assignee the right to specific performance on the ground that the assignee was not bound by the 
contract, but this is an obvious misapplication of the mutuality 
rule since performance of the assignor's contract was insured by 
the plaintiff's tender of performance in his bill and by subjecting 
himself to the jurisdiction of the court. 

The assignee does not become bound by the contract merely 
by acquiring the assignment, 8 but, on the other hand, he may 
acquire benefits of the contract not directly stipulated for or in 
terms transferred by the assignment. Thus, the assignment of 
the right of the vendor upon an executory contract of sale or the 
endorsement of a note given on account of the purchase money not 
only transfers to the assignee or endorsee the right to the purchase 
money, but it gives him the benefit of the res in the hands of the 
vendor as security for the purchase money. This result follows, 
even though the assignee may not have known of the existence 
of the res in the hands of the vendor. This doctrine, just as in 
the case of the like doctrine of mortgage law that a transfer of the 
mortgage debt carries with it an equitable claim to the mortgage 
security, seems to be based on the necessity under which equity 
often finds itself where it raises a constructive trust of bestowing the trust res on the most meritorious of the several persons 
concerned. The vendor is equitably entitled to hold the property 
sold only as security for the purchase price. The vendee is entitled to receive the property only on payment of the purchase 
price. The vendor cannot retain the property except as security 
for the purchase price. The vendee has no right to receive the 
property until he has paid for it. In any case, the assignee receives the benefit of the security, and equity, to prevent a less 
meritorious party to the transaction from getting the property 
without payment of the purchase price, will give the assignee relief 
on his own application. The result is that the assignee may not only 
have specific performance of the contract, but, when performance 
is impossible because the vendee is unable or unwilling to perform, equity will retain jurisdiction to foreclose the security and 
apply the proceeds to the payment of the vendor's assignee.It is upon a similar principle that the executor or administrator of 
the vendor is given equitable rights to have the contract of the 
vendee specifically performed or to have the property sold and 
the proceeds applied in satisfaction of the purchase money. 11 

It is sometimes said that the interest of the vendor or of the 
mortgagee in the res passes to the assignee of the purchase money 
as an incident to the assignee's debt. 12 The assignee, however, does 
not acquire any right in the property which will enable him to 
maintain an action based either on title or right to possession. 
His right is purely an equitable one to establish a lien. 13 It is 
generally superior to that of the attaching creditor, 14 and may be 
postponed only to the rights of bona fide purchasers for value. 15 

If, however, the vendor sells the property itself, retaining the 
claim to the purchase money, the rule as commonly stated that the 
property is a mere incident to the contract, has no application, since the assignor could not be heard to set up an equitable 
claim to the property which he had sold to his grantee. When, 
therefore, the purchaser is an innocent purchaser for value, he 
may retain the property both against the contract vendor and the 
contract vendee. If, however, he is not an innocent purchaser, 
he is, upon familiar principles, bound to convey to the vendee, 
but he is equitably entitled to. the purchase money as proceeds of 
the land to which he has a better claim in equity than the vendor 
who by his sale is estopped to claim either the land or its proceeds as against his own grantee. 16 The effect, therefore, of a 
sale of the land to a third person under an existing contract of 
sale by the vendor is in its practical operation an equitable assignment of the contract right to receive the purchase money, and the 
vendee having notice of the transfer of the subject matter of sale 
will pay the vendor at his peril. Such a payment, although a 
discharge of the legal obligation, is such a participation by the 
vendee in the equitable wrong of the vendor as will make the 
vendee liable as upon a tort for interference with the equitable 
rights of the vendor's grantee. These rights have their origin in 
the inequitable conduct of the vendee in attempting to appropriate to himself the proceeds of property which he has transferred to his grantee for consideration. 

The notion that rights in covenant may be annexed to a property right and pass by implication to transferees of the property 
right is a familiar one in law. Covenants for title are deemed to 
pass by implication on conveyance of the title by the covenantee. 
Covenants "touching and concerning" a leasehold estate pass by 
implication on assignment of the reversion or of the leasehold 
respectively benefited by the covenant, and notwithstanding the 
doctrine of Spencer's case that the burden of restrictive covenants does not "run" when there is no relation of landlord and 
tenant, the law courts found no difficulty in giving to transferees of the dominant estate the benefit of the covenant. There 
was, therefore, much less scope for equity to expand the law in 
connection with the running of the benefit of such covenants than 
with the running of the burden under the doctrine of Talk v. 
Moxhay. The legal doctrine, however, was hedged in by technical restrictions. The promise to be annexed to the land and 
transferable with the transfer of the land had to be under seal. 
It could be annexed only to legal interests. 18 The transferee had 
to be a true successor to the covenantee. A sub-lessee acquired 
no interest in the covenant at law. 

As, however, the breach of a restrictive covenant where there is a dominant estate affects the use and enjoyment of the dominant estate, the right of the covenantee has a unique quality 
similar to the right in a contract for the conveyance of land which 
equity will specifically perform. Equity, therefore, has jurisdiction to restrain the breach of the covenant regardless of the 
amount of damage. 10 It is not surprising, therefore, that the law 
of the subject has been developed in recent times almost wholly 
in the courts of equity. The rule governing the transfer of the 
benefit of the restrictive covenant in equity may, therefore, be 
taken as the rule of the law courts except that, unlike the law, 
equity" ascribes no magic to the seal, and a simple agreement or 
indeed an implied agreement affecting the use of the land, may 
have in equity all the efficacy ascribed by courts of law to the 
sealed instrument and may be annexed to the dominant estate and 
pass by implication to the transferee of the land. 20 The restrictive covenant or agreement in equity might be annexed to an 
equitable interest 21 and the benefit of the restrictive covenant was 
also held by the court of equity to pass to a lessee 22 or presumably 
to one acquiring any other legal or equitable interest in the land 
or in the use and enjoyment of the dominant tenement. 23 

Where the true interpretation of the restrictive covenant is 
that it is for the personal benefit of the covenantee who has the 
use and enjoyment of neighboring land, there is no basis for the 
implication that the benefit of the covenant passes with the transfer of the covenantee's land. 24 Where, however, the enforcement of the covenant necessarily affects the use or enjoyment of 
the covenantee's land, and the covenant is not by its terms restricted to the personal use and enjoyment of the land by the 
covenantee, there is basis for the implication that the covenant is 
intended to benefit the successive owners of the land and that it 
passes with the land into the hands of subsequent grantees. 
Courts of equity have generally held that the transferee of the 
covenantee's land is by operation of law vested with the right to 
enforce the covenant against the original covenantor and all those 
claiming under him except those to whom the plea of purchase 
for value is available. 23 The analogy of the relationship to true 
easements which pass by implication with the conveyance of the 
dominant estate is obvious and has given rise to the phrase 
"equitable easement." Although, as we have seen, this phrase is 
misleading when applied to the burden of the restrictive covenant, 20 it is much more applicable to the running of the benefit 
of the restrictive covenant, since the notion of a contractual 
restriction for the benefit of the dominant estate which passes by 
implication with the transfer of the land accepts and applies some 
of the most characteristic features of the law of easements appurtenant. 

Until the decision in Rends v. Cowlishaw 27 the doctrine that 
the benefit of the restrictive covenant passes by implication with 
the dominant estate just as a common law easement passes seems 
to have been fully established. In that case an owner of land 
conveyed a strip of land bordering on a reserved right of way 
subject to a covenant against building within a certain distance 
of the way. All buildings on the land conveyed were to be of a 
certain type and no trade was to be carried on in them. The 
deed contained no statement that the restriction was for the 
benefit of the way or other land retained by the grantor. The 
reserved plot was conveyed by the covenantee to the plaintiff 
without any formal assignment of the covenant or any contract 
that the plaintiff should have the benefit of it. Hall, Vice-Chancellor, held that the plaintiff was not entitled to the benefit of 
the covenant since there was no formal assignment of it and the 
covenant had not been formally annexed to the land so that the 
benefit of it could be deemed transferred to the plaintiff by virtue 
of the conveyance. The effect of this decision was to introduce a 
new element into the law on the subject, which was, in effect, a 
principle of interpretation of restrictive covenants. The mere 
fact that the covenant if performed would necessarily affect the 
use and enjoyment of the covenantee's land gives rise to no presumption that the covenant was reserved for the benefit of the 
covenantee's land, since it is equally consistent with the interpretation that it was reserved for the benefit of the covenantee 
personally so as to enable him to deal with his property more advantageously. From this it would follow that the 
grantee of the covenantee would acquire no benefit of the covenant unless it either became the subject of the bargain and was 
formally assigned to his grantee or was in some way annexed 
to the covenantee's land and passed with it by implication as in 
the case of a true easement. A point of difficulty with Hall, ViceChancellor, which was of weight in inducing this conclusion was 
the fact that the grantee of the covenantee had no knowledge of 
the covenant and the fact that the grantee under a different 
interpretation would have acquired the benefit of the covenant 
which was not the subject of his bargain and the existence of 
which was unknown to him. The similar consequence in the 
analogous case of easements and of covenants for title had presented no difficulty and there are many examples in English law 
of cases where the buyer has acquired the benefit of an easement 
or covenant for title of which he knew nothing at the time he 
took his conveyance, and in a later case 28 it was held that when 
the benefit of the covenant is once annexed to land it passes to 
subsequent grantees regardless of their knowledge of the existence of the covenant. The effect of Renals v. Cowlishaw, therefore, was to create a middle class of cases between those where, 
on the one hand, the covenant is purely personal and not in any 
way affecting the covenantee's land, and those, on the other, 
where the covenant is deemed to be annexed to the land. In this 
middle class of cases where the covenant affects the covenantee's 
land but is deemed not to be annexed to it, its passing with the 
land to subsequent grantees will depend upon the voluntary act 
of the covenantee by formally assigning it or in some manner 
annexing it to the land. Annexation may be effected by a stipulation in the covenant 29 that the covenant shall be for the benefit 
of the covenantee's land and all of those acquiring the land, and 
presumably by any other evidence establishing affirmatively that 
the covenant was intended for the benefit of all subsequent owners. Conceivably, the benefit of a covenant not originally annexed to the land of the covenantee under the doctrine of Renals 
v. Cowlishaw, but, nevertheless, affecting the use and enjoyment 
of the covenantee's land, might be annexed to the covenantee's 
land without formal assignment. In one case 30 the annexation 
was held to be affected by the covenantor selling the land under 
a building scheme by reference to a map which embraced the 
land of the covenantee although there had been no building plan 
when the covenantee acquired the land. 

The same result is generally reached in the case of 
building plans where land is divided into plots and offered 
for sale under a single restrictive covenant. The benefit 
of the covenant is deemed to be annexed to each plot and 
passes by implication to all subsequent takers. The practical consequence of the doctrine of Renals v. Cowlishaw is that the covenantee who reserves a restrictive covenant, there being no building plan and there being no formal stipulation that the covenant 
is for the benefit of the covenantee's land, is presumed not to 
have taken the covenant for the benefit of the land but rather for 
his personal benefit. Such a doctrine is violative of the general principle that one is presumed to intend the necessary consequences of the act which he stipulates for in his contract, and 
has little to commend it except the general doctrine followed in 
many jurisdictions that new restrictions upon land are not favored. It is likewise contrary to the general principle that a grant 
shall be construed most strongly against the grantor. Renals v. 
Cowlishaw has been followed in the English courts 31 but it is 
doubtful how generally its doctrine has been accepted in the 
United States. The courts of most states have not recognized the 
doctrine although the case has often been cited with approval ; 32 
Massachusetts' 33 seems to have accepted the doctrine; there are 
some cases in New Jersey resting avowedly upon it. 34 The courts 
of Michigan and Rhode Island 35 have expressly repudiated the 
doctrine. 

Where a common grantor conveys several plots of land to 
different grantees, each conveyance containing the same covenant, it is obvious that the earlier grantees will acquire no rights 
on the covenants restricting the plots conveyed later, under the 
doctrine of implied assignment 36 although the later grantees will 
acquire the benefit of covenants restricting the land conveyed 
earlier. 37 But in two classes of cases the first grantees are 
allowed in equity to enforce the covenants affecting the land of 
the later grantees. Thus, where the common grantor of land 
subject to restrictions covenants with the earlier grantees that he 
will make like restrictions in the later conveyances, it is held 
that the earlier grantees may enforce the covenants in the other 
later conveyances. 38 The same result is reached where the land 
is sold subject to a general building plan as shown on a map or 
defined in the general terms of sale indicating that the entire land 
included within the plot is to be subject to and benefited by the 
restrictions. 38 In these cases buyers of the earlier plots cannot 
be deemed to be assignees of the benefit of covenants embodied 
Jn deeds of a later date 40 and the easy explanation usually offered 
is that in these cases of land divided up and sold subject to 
mutual covenants or subject to a building plan, the earlier grantees are allowed to sue on later covenants made "for their benefit." 
It has also been suggested that the later covenants were taken 
by the covenantee in trust for the earlier grantees. Indeed 
Knight-Bruce, L. J., held that the common grantor was a necessary party to a bill to enforce the covenant in an action brought 
by an earlier grantee against a later one on the theory that the 
covenantee was a trustee for the earlier grantees. 41 But this 
doctrine no longer represents the commonly accepted view and 
the common grantor cannot maintain a bill to restrain the breach 
of the covenant after he has sold off his land on the theory that 
he is a trustee of the covenant for the benefit of earlier grantees. 43 
The late Professor Ames accounted for this and certain other 
cases where a grantee is allowed to enforce a covenant of which 
he cannot be said to be an assignee by likening the person entitled 
to the benefit of the covenant to the persona designata in the law of 
negotiable paper. 43 But it may well be doubted whether this 
analogy will hold in all cases in those jurisdictions where one is 
not allowed to sue on the contract of strangers made for his 
benefit. Thus, if the land were divided into plots and sold subject to restrictive covenants entered into avowedly not only for 
the benefit of the purchasers of the plots but for the benefit of 
the owners of neighboring land, such neighboring owners would 
be the persona designate of the covenant. But such authority as 
there is indicates clearly that in a jurisdiction where third parties 
are not generally allowed to sue on contracts made for their benefit, 
such neighboring owners would not be entitled to enforce the 
restriction. 44 With the present attitude of the courts toward the 
doctrine of consideration and the disinclination of courts to widen 
the scope of restrictions on land, it is hardly to be expected that 
equity will give to the persona designate of a restrictive agreement who is not in privity with the covenantor or covenantee 
rights in the same way that rights were given to the payee of 
negotiable paper, in order to give such paper currency and to 
conform to business usage. 

There is a much simpler explanation of the rule that the 
earlier grantee is equitably entitled to the benefit of the covenant 
contained in the later grants made by the common grantor, and 
one which has the support of authority. If the common grantor 
after having made one grant containing a restrictive covenant 
pursuant to the plan, should himself thereafter violate the restriction, he could be enjoined by his grantee from the threatened 
violation on the basis of his implied promise that the entire plot 
should be subject to the restriction. 45 Indeed the buyer of a 
plot sold subject to a building plan is entitled to haVe a conveyance expressly covenanting that any plots not sold shall be subject to the plan. 40 All subsequent grantees having notice of the 
plan would, under the doctrine of Tulk v. Moxhay," be subject 
to the like restriction. The grantor is subject to the restriction 
because he has impliedly undertaken that the land obtained by him should be subject to it. His subsequent grantees are likewise subject to it because they cannot acquire his land with notice 
of the covenant and repudiate the obligation affecting it. 

Some troublesome questions affecting the running of the 
benefit of the restrictive covenant have grown out of the subdivision of a single plot held subject to a restrictive covenant. Each 
purchaser is subject to the covenant in an action brought by the 
original covenantee or his grantee on principles already considered. But may a covenantor who has conveyed away a part of 
his land restrain his grantee from violating the restriction, and 
may the grantor likewise be subjected to the restriction at the 
suit of his grantee? The doctrine of implied assignment cannot 
here be invoked since neither the grantor nor his grantee would 
be deemed to be assignees of the covenant entered into by the 
grantor, for the grantor cannot be deemed to be both the covenantor and covenantee. 48 And this is the result reached very 
generally where no building plan is involved.* 9 Even in the case 
of a building plan, the English courts have held that the grantor 
cannot enforce his own restrictive covenant against his grantee on 
a part of the plot originally held by him subject to the covenant 
where he had reserved no right on the restrictive covenant in his 
deed of conveyance. 60 To allow the grantor to restrain his 
grantee under such circumstances would be to allow him to derogate from his own grant, nor would the grantee, as such, acquire 
corresponding rights against his grantor, merely by virtue of his 
acquiring grant of a part of the grantor's land. But a new 
promise by the grantor to the grantee that the land retained by 
him should be subject to the restrictive covenant may be enforced 
by the grantee and such a promise may be implied from the conduct of the grantor interpreted in the light of the surrounding 
circumstances. 

In this country a number of courts have reached the conclusion that, in the case of a building plan where a covenantor 
has subdivided the plot held by him subject to the restriction, 
the sub-grantees may enforce the covenant against each other 
respectively although there is no express renewal of the covenant 
in the deed. 52 This somewhat startling result really rests on the 
true interpretation of the covenant when it is the basis of the 
building plan. If the real meaning of such a covenant is that 
the restriction is intended to be imposed on every part of the 
land embraced in the plan for the benefit of every other part of 
the land in whosever hands it may come, the original grantor 
who has offered the land subject to the plan may on principles already considered be deemed impliedly to have reserved the covenant for the benefit of all those who may 
thereafter acquire an interest in any part of the land embraced 
in the plan. He would then become trustee of the covenant for 
all subsequent purchasers and each purchaser as he acquired an 
interest in any part of the restricted property would become entitled to the benefit of the covenant as cestui que trust. In 
Schrieber v. Creed 53 Shad well, V. C, suggested that the plaintiff 
in order to enforce restrictions must be either an assignee or a 
cestui que trust. 

This view has received the support of judicial opinion in 
some other cases. 54 As a matter of procedure, the original covenantee need not be joined as a party in a suit brought by one 
grantee against another, 55 but in other respects the notion that the 
original covenantee under a building plan is a trustee of the restrictive covenant for all subsequent grantees including the grantee 
of a subdivision of a single plot, conforms to recognized legal 
doctrine and effectuates the intention of the parties. 

Unless this view be accepted as affording adequate explanation of the doctrine of building plan restrictions, then the law of 
the subject, at least so far as the rights inter se of the grantee of 
a single plot subject to the restriction are concerned, must be 
regarded as sui generis. Reference has already been made to the application of restrictive covenants to personal property 58 and obviously wherever 
the doctrine is applied with respect to the running of the burden 
of the covenant or agreement it should be applied to the running 
of the benefit in an appropriate case. Although the English 
courts have refused to extend the doctrine to chattels they have in 
the "tied house" covenants so far regarded the business of the 
covenantee brewer as equivalent to a dominant estate, that the 
burden of the covenant to use only the brewer's beer will run 
against all subsequent takers of the servient tenement. 67 

It would seem to follow that the benefit of the covenant 
might be annexed to the' business and pass with it by implication 
to all subsequent takers. This seems to be the result of the American decisions where the question has arisen; restrictive covenants have been taken for the benefit of a business carried on 
by the covenantee. 

The English cases on the subject give rise to some perplexity. 
In these cases the question of the running of the benefit has 
usually been complicated by the fact that the covenantee brewer 
is also the mortgagee or lessor of the covenantor. 

It seems, however, to be settled that the benefit of such a 
covenant, *'. e., to buy exclusively the beer brewed at a certain 
brewery or in connection with a certain business, does not pass 
to an assignee of the reversion who does not also acquire the 
brewer's business, since the covenant is not one running with 
the reversion ; 58 and, as in that case the covenantee retains the 
benefit of the covenant, 59 he should be allowed to enforce it for 
the benefit of his business. It has been held that the benefit of 
the "tied house" covenants will pass by assignment to a purchaser of the business on the theory that the covenant is for the 
benefit of the business, 80 since if the covenant is not construed 
to be for the benefit of the business it will not pass with it even by express assignment of the covenant. 41 Thus it would follow 
that the covenant for the benefit of the business would pass by 
implication, not to the assignees of the reversion as such but to 
the transferees of the business. 62 

A study of the "tied house" cases indicates clearly enough 
that on principle the doctrine of the running of the benefit of 
restrictions is applicable to personal property generally, and that 
the benefit of the restriction will pass by implication with the 
personal property to be benefited. This view, however, is inconsistent with the later English cases which tend to limit the doctrine to real estate, 63 where there is a dominant tenement, 6 * — a 
tendency which, as already pointed out, has had an unfortunate 
effect on the development of law. 

It has become the fashion to speak of the decadence of equity 
in our Anglo-American system of jurisprudence. In matters 
of procedure there is undoubtedly some justification for such a 
reference to the equity system, since we no longer are required 
in most jurisdictions to seek equitable relief before a separate 
court or by a distinct system of procedure, and we everywhere 
witness the gradual taking over of equity doctrines by courts of 
law wherever distinctly legal procedure will- admit of such a 
process. 

But the history of the development of the law of restrictive 
covenants and agreements since Ttilk v. Moxhay in 1848 is a 
typical example of the way in which doctrines developed by courts 
of equity continue to be a vital force in our law, by which it 
retains its flexibility and adaptability to new and changing conditions. It shows how these doctrines mould the more rigid and 
unyielding rules of law so as to make effective the intention of 
contracting parties and conform those rules to the economic 
needs and the moral standards of the community. 

Consideration of the ways in which equity has extended the 
rights and liabilities upon contracting third persons will lead to 
the conclusion that, as an effective instrumentality for expanding 
and developing our law, equity is in no proper sense decadent, 
but is rather a vital force. 
