 WE are met to commemorate an event, notable alike in the history of this University and of our profession. For the first time it has been given to an American university to establish a unit completely organized and equipped for the training of lawyers, for research in legal science, and for the intimate association at a common meeting place of students and teachers of law with the members of the Bench and Bar. By that magic which only the modern world has known, in a brief interval of time all the physical equipment which skill and ingenuity could devise to aid those engaged in the common enterprise of advancing the science of the law has here been assembled, clothed in architectural forms of enduring beauty, and richly endowed to insure its service in perpetuity. All this has come about through the far-seeing generosity of a graduate of this University. To him it was given to see a vision, as he in his own words has described it, of the legal profession of the nation, profoundly influenced by its law schools, taking its proper place in the development of American institutions. What we here see and dedicate to this useful service is the tangible evidence of his faith in that vision.   We meet at a time when, as never before in the history of the country, our most cherished ideals and traditions are being subjected to searching criticism. The towering edifice of business and industry, which had become the dominating feature of the *2 American social structure, has been shaken to its foundations by forces, the full significance of which we still can see but dimly. What had seemed the impregnable fortress of a boasted civilization has developed unsuspected weaknesses and in consequence we are now engaged in the altogether wholesome task of critical reexamination of what our hands have reared.   From this inquiry the law and the lawyer may claim no immunity. It is true, if tradition and history are guides, that we may rightly look to the Bar for leadership in the preservation and development of American institutions. Specially trained in the field of law and government, invested with the unique privileges of his office, experienced in the world of affairs, and versed in the problems of business organization and administration, to whom, if not to the lawyer, may we look for guidance in solving the problems of a sorely stricken social order?   No tradition of our profession is more cherished by lawyers than that of its leadership in public affairs. We dwell upon the part of lawyers in the creation of the Federal Constitution and in the organization of the national government and of our federal and state judicial systems. The rôle they played in politics and government in the first half of the last century is a familiar part of our history. The records of the early Bar associations in the thirteen original states afford convincing evidence that the lawyers of the time took more than a perfunctory interest in the social obligations of the profession. We find their Bar organizations actively supervising and controlling membership in the Bar and setting standards of admission to it higher than those which prevail in most of those states today. In a very real sense they were guardians of the law, cherishing the legitimate influence of their guild as that of a profession charged with public duties and responsibilities. The great figures of the law stir the imagination and inspire our reverence according as they have used their special training and gifts for the advancement of the public interest. Coke, standing steadfast against the encroachment of the Crown on the prerogatives of parliament; John Hampden, with his group of famous counsel resisting in the courts the levy of ship money by the Crown; James Otis, the stalwart defender of the right of free speech, throwing up his commission as Advocate General of Massachusetts to argue against writs of assistance; John Marshall, *3 with prophetic vision, welding the clashing states into a united nation; all are names to which we recur as symbols of the power of public leadership exercised by the Bar at its best.   All this is justly the subject of pride to lawyers. The records of almost any Bar Association meeting reveal our readiness to turn back to these pages of a glorious past, because they portray those ideals of our profession to which we would most willingly pay tribute. Yet candor would compel even those of us who have the most abiding faith in our profession, and the firmest belief in its capacity for future usefulness, to admit that in our own time the Bar has not maintained its traditional position of public influence and leadership. Although it tends to prove the point, it is not of the first importance that there are fewer lawyers of standing serving in the halls of legislatures or in executive or administrative posts than in earlier days. Public office is not the only avenue to public influence. Representatives of other professions in public position have always been comparatively few, but wherever questions of professional concern to them touch the public interest, they are nevertheless profoundly influential. In matters of sanitation and public health, in great public undertakings involving engineering knowledge and skill, we place ourselves unreservedly in their hands. But it is not without its lesson for us that most laymen, at least, would deny that there is today a comparable leadership on the part of lawyers, or a disposition of the public to place reliance upon their leadership where the problems of government touch the law.   We cannot brush aside this lay dissatisfaction with lawyers with the comforting assurance that it is nothing more than the chronic distrust of the lawyer class which the literature of every age has portrayed. It is, I fear, the expression of a belief too general and too firmly held for us to shut our eyes to it. One might cite many examples but it suffices that in the struggle, unique in our history, to determine whether the giant economic forces which our industrial and financial world have created shall be brought under some larger measure of control and, if so, what legal devices can and should be selected to accomplish that end, it is a matter of public comment that the practicing lawyer has been but a minor participant. It is unnecessary, and it would be unbecoming for me to express any opinion upon the merits of that controversy or *4 the methods of its solution. It is enough for present purposes that in one of the most critical periods of our history, when a major public problem is the choice of remedies for our economic ills and the mutual adjustment and reconciliation of those remedies with legal doctrine, the practicing Bar of the nation has not attained its accustomed place of recognized leadership. Unless in this time of self-searching we are to abandon the lawyer’s habit of facing the realities of the world in which we live and rest content to dwell on the happier recollections of another day, we cannot avoid asking ourselves how our past, and the ideals which claim our attachment, are to be reconciled with the disquieting circumstances of our present; or whether the donor of this beneficent gift for the public good was mistaken in his judgment that we may look to the legal profession more than to other groups in our society for future public leadership.   The coercive power of the state no doubt has its part to play in any civilization. We cannot do without the policeman, yet we cannot count his night stick as our most potent civilizing agency. In seeking solutions for our social and economic maladjustments we are too ready to place our reliance on what the state may command, rather than on what may be given to it as the free offering of good citizenship, forgetting that in doing so we give first place to the policeman’s club. Yet we know that unless the urge of individual advantage has other curbs, unless we may have recourse to other forces of social betterment, and unless the more influential elements in society conduct themselves with a disposition to promote the common good, society cannot function. This is the more so in a society which has largely measured its rewards in terms of material gains. For as our conception of what is reward is less related to the social welfare the problem of bringing individual conduct into harmony with the demands of society becomes more acute, and in a changing economy mere material gain to the individual may not in itself be the social good it was once conceived to be.   Throughout the history of Anglo-American civilization, the professional groups have been among the most significant of those non-governmental agencies which promote the public welfare. Although in smaller measure, during the rapid growth of our industrial system their function has been not unlike that of the *5 medieval guilds. They have exerted direct control over their members by training, by selection, by punishment, by reward. Among these groups the position of the Bar has been one of peculiar importance and significance. While it has not inherited the completely independent status of the English bar, to no other group in this country has the state granted comparable privileges or permitted so much autonomy. No other is so closely related to the state, and no other has traditionally exerted so powerful an influence on public opinion and on public policy. That influence in the past has been wielded chiefly in the courts, in the forum of local communities, in legislative halls, in the councils of government. In all its varying aspects, it has been most potent when public questions have been closely associated with legal questions in whose discussion the lawyer was peculiarly at home, and when, with a developed consciousness of its social responsibility, it was inevitable that the Bar should draw upon all its special knowledge and skill and resourcefulness for their solution.   In appraising the present-day relationship of the lawyer to his community, we cannot leave out of account either the altered character of public questions or the change in the function which the lawyers, as a class, are called upon to perform. It was in 1809 when Jefferson wrote: “We are a rural farming people; we have little business and few manufactures among us, and I pray God it will be a long time before we have much of either.” Profound changes have come into American life since that sentence was penned. The first half of the nineteenth century saw the beginnings of a shift from that idyllic scene, and in the second half the transformation was complete from a young nation made up of isolated groups of agricultural pioneer communities, scattered through the vast territory east of the Mississippi River, to an industrial state, in which, in our own day, we have witnessed the domination of law and politics by inexorable economic forces. Public problems are no longer exclusively questions of individual right. They involve an understanding of the new and complex economic forces we have created, their relationship to the lives of individuals in widely separated communities engaged in widely differing activities, and the adaptation to those forces of old conceptions of law developed in a different environment to meet different needs.   *6 The American Bar, like most other elements in the life of the nation, was ill prepared for a change so swift and sweeping. From the beginning of the commercial expansion in England almost to our own day, the problems of the law were those of an intensely individualistic society. An adequate technique, and skill in using it, engaged the attention of its practitioners. Its historical background and moral content, and more or less abortive attempts to reform its procedure, were the chief considerations of its philosophers.   When the universities, but a little more than a generation ago, found place for the study of the law, its expositors were at first mainly concerned with its precedents and its technique. There was a persistent delving into its past, an assiduous analysis of what courts had done and the manner of their doing it, but little reflection upon the relationship of law to the social and economic forces which produce it or contemplation of its function as a means of social control rather than as an end in itself. There was still less perception of the significance of the rise of new forces in American life which, with constantly accelerated speed, were reconstructing society upon a new economic basis, with an ever increasing interdependence of its every group and part upon every other.   The changed character of the lawyer’s work has made it difficult for him to contemplate his function in its new setting, to see himself and his occupation in proper perspective. No longer does his list of clients represent a cross section of society; no longer do his contacts make him the typical representative and interpreter of his community. The demands of practice are more continuous and exacting. He has less time for reflection upon other than immediate professional undertakings. He is more the man of action, less the philosopher and less the student of history, economics, and government.   The rise of big business has produced an inevitable specialization of the Bar. The successful lawyer of our day more often than not is the proprietor or general manager of a new type of factory, whose legal product is increasingly the result of mass production methods. More and more the amount of his income is the measure of professional success. More and more he must look for his rewards to the material satisfactions derived from profits as from a successfully conducted business, rather than to *7 the intangible and indubitably more durable satisfactions which are to be found in a professional service more consciously directed toward the advancement of the public interest. Steadily the best skill and capacity of the profession has been drawn into the exacting and highly specialized service of business and finance. At its best the changed system has brought to the command of the business world loyalty and a superb proficiency and technical skill. At its worst it has made the learned profession of an earlier day the obsequious servant of business, and tainted it with the morals and manners of the market place in its most anti-social manifestations. In any case we must concede that it has given us a Bar whose leaders, like its rank and file, are on the whole less likely to be well rounded professional men than their predecessors, whose energy and talent for public service and for bringing the law into harmony with changed conditions have been largely absorbed in the advancement of the interests of clients.   These changes have come upon us by imperceptible stages and are still almost unrecognized. There has been no concerted effort of lawyers to bring them about. Indeed, it cannot be said that they have been welcome to the Bar, though one may doubt whether it could have resisted them successfully, or whether it could have met the new demands upon it except by some form of specialization necessarily involving a more or less onesided development of the profession as a whole.   I mention these changes now, not to condemn, but to describe them. We can hardly suppose that they have not come to stay in something like their present form, or that such evils as they have brought can be combatted without intelligent action, taken with full knowledge of the facts. Facts are stubborn but revealing things, and the first step toward any form of social improvement is frank recognition of them. When we know the significant facts in the professional life of the lawyers of the present generation and appraise them in the light of the altered world in which we live, we shall better understand how it is that a Bar which has done so much to develop and refine the technique of business organization, to provide skillfully devised methods for financing industry, which has guided a world wide commercial expansion, has done relatively so little to remedy the evils of the investment market; so little to adapt the fiduciary principle of nineteenth century *8 equity to twentieth century business practices; so little to improve the functioning of the administrative mechanisms which modern government sets up to prevent abuses; so little to make law more readily available as an instrument of justice to the common man.   Notwithstanding all the pressures of modern economic life upon the lawyer, and his absorption with the demands of client-care-taking, we could make no greater mistake than to assume that ours has become a profession without ideals. Even the lawyer’s devotion to the interests of his clients is a manifestation of a selfless loyalty to an ideal, though it may not always be seen in true perspective in relation to the public interest which it is also his duty to serve. No one familiar with the history of the Bar, knowing its life and personnel, can doubt that it has the idealism, the will to sacrifice, the capacity for leadership, which will continue to enable it to play well its part. No professional class has greater pride in its traditions or higher aspirations for its future. None will respond more willingly, with generous expenditure of time and effort, to the intelligent call for action. But none so much needs to know the facts which reveal, in clear relief, its altered position in the social structure and the manner in which under new conditions it is meeting its public responsibilities. None, unless it be the scientists, can be more profoundly moved by facts.   But like most other elements of the community, we are in a sense the victims of changes, of whose nature and effect we are still not wholly aware. Hence it is that the Bar needs to know and to focus its attention upon the facts, not in the form of assumptions or generalizations, nor yet on the details of petty misconduct in its disreputable outer fringes, but upon data patiently assembled and organized so as to show with the powerful impact of revealed truth the extent to which devotion to private interests has obscured our vision of the public welfare. I pass over more familiar criticisms to an example more significant though less well recognized and appreciated.   I venture to assert that when the history of the financial era which has just drawn to a close comes to be written, most of its mistakes and its major faults will be ascribed to the failure to observe the fiduciary principle, the precept as old as holy writ, that “a man cannot serve two masters”. More than a century ago *9 equity gave a hospitable reception to that principle and the common law was not slow to follow in giving it recognition. No thinking man can believe that an economy built upon a business foundation can permanently endure without some loyalty to that principle. The separation of ownership from management, the development of the corporate structure so as to vest in small groups control over the resources of great numbers of small and uninformed investors, make imperative a fresh and active devotion to that principle if the modern world of business is to perform its proper function. Yet those who serve nominally as trustees, but relieved, by clever legal devices, from the obligation to protect those whose interests they purport to represent, corporate officers and directors who award to themselves huge bonuses from corporate funds without the assent or even the knowledge of their stockholders, reorganization committees created to serve interests of others than those whose securities they control, financial institutions which, in the infinite variety of their operations, consider only last, if at all, the interests of those whose funds they command, suggest how far we have ignored the necessary implications of that principle. The loss and suffering inflicted on individuals, the harm done to a social order founded upon business and dependent upon its integrity, are incalculable. There is little to suggest that the Bar has yet recognized that it must bear some burden of responsibility for these evils. But when we know and face the facts we shall have to acknowledge that such departures from the fiduciary principle do not usually occur without the active assistance of some member of our profession, and that their increasing recurrence would have been impossible but for the complaisance of a Bar, too absorbed in the workaday care of private interests to take account of these events of profound import or to sound the warning that the profession looks askance upon these, as things that “are not done”.   We must remember, nevertheless, that the very conditions which have caused specialization, which have drawn so heavily upon the technical proficiency of the Bar, have likewise placed it in a position where the possibilities of its influence are almost beyond calculation. The intricacies of business organization are built upon a legal framework which the current growth of administrative law is still further elaborating. Without the constant *10 advice and guidance of lawyers business would come to an abrupt halt. And whatever standards of conduct in the performance of its function the Bar consciously adopts must at once be reflected in the character of the world of business and finance. Given a measure of self-conscious and cohesive professional unity, the Bar may exert a power more beneficent and far reaching than it or any other non-governmental group has wielded in the past.   If you think I have sketched too dark a picture of the difficulties which beset us, I hasten to assure you that it is not from any counsel of despair. I would only point out that in the new order which has been forced upon us, we cannot expect the Bar to function as it did in other days and under other conditions. Before it can function at all as the guardian of public interests committed to its care, there must be appraisal and comprehension of the new conditions and the changed relationships of the lawyer to his clients, to his professional brethren and to the public. That appraisal must pass beyond the petty details of form and manners which have been so largely the subject of our codes of ethics, to more fundamental consideration of the way in which our professional activities affect the welfare of society as a whole. Our canons of ethics for the most part are generalizations designed for an earlier era. However undesirable the practices condemned, they do not profoundly affect the social order outside our own group. We must not permit our attention to the relatively inconsequential to divert us from preparing to set appropriate standards for those who design the legal patterns for business practices of far more consequence to society than any with which our grievance committees have been preoccupied.   Apart from the procedure of formulating new methods of discipline and new specifications of condemned practices, we must give more thoughtful consideration to squaring our own ethical conceptions with the traditional ethics and ideals of the community at large. The problems to which the machine and the corporation give rise have outstripped the ideology and values of an earlier day. The future demands that we undergo a corresponding moral readjustment. Just as the lawyers of 1790 to 1840 took a leading part in fashioning the country’s ideals to suit political change, so we must now shoulder the task of relating them to business and economic change.   *11 All this cannot be done in those occasional and brief intervals when the busy lawyer secures some respite from the pressing demands of clients to participate in the festivities of bar association meetings. It requires study and investigation, the painstaking gathering of data and their portrayal in such fashion that we may know the facts and, knowing them, develop a consciousness of their implications for our profession.   With so much to be done we must look to those elements in the profession best qualified for doing it. A generation ago that search must have begun and ended with practicing lawyers. But paralleling the development of the practicing bar has come, in the past fifty years, the steady growth in public esteem and influence of a new force in American legal life, that of the rapidly increasing group of university law teachers, devoting their lives to the task of advancing the cause of legal science for which they have been specially selected and trained. Members of the Bar, they nevertheless make up a distinct professional group within the Bar. More detached than is the barrister from the absorbing demands of clients and from those pressures of the new economic order which have so profoundly affected their practicing brethren, their approach to legal problems has been that of the disinterested scientist. For a generation they contented themselves with the necessary work of analysis, clarification and statement of legal doctrine. More recently, with penetrating insight, they have expanded their inquiries to embrace the relation of law to the social forces which create it, and which in turn it is designed to control. Today they are beginning to turn their attention to the Bar as an institution, seeking to gain an informed understanding of its problems, to appraise the performance of its public functions and to find ways of stimulating a more adequate performance of them. In all this they have rendered and are rendering a public service of a high order.   With the ever increasing demands on the time and energy of the practicing lawyer, it was but natural that it should fall to the lot of the law-school men to take the lead in discharging the public duties which rest on the profession as a whole. It is they who have taken the initiative in the most important reforms undertaken by the Bar in the past twenty years. They originated and have chiefly guided the movements espoused by the Bar for the *12 enactment of uniform laws, the restatement of the law, the improvement in standards of admission to the Bar, and the reform of civil and criminal procedure. It is they who today represent the most cohesive, disinterested and potent single force operating within the profession to establish its public relationships on a higher plane. The donor of this great educational center, in formulating his forward-looking plan, was not unfamiliar with this recent history of our profession. He made no mistake in recognizing the law schools as an important factor in it. Neither was he mistaken, I am convinced, in the assumption, implicit in his words, that the future would see the Bar increasingly influenced by the work of the schools.   And so I turn to the part which our university law schools may take in the study and promotion of the highest interests of the Bar. The functioning of the Bar as an essential institution in present-day American life is worthy of research and exposition for the enlightenment of the Bar and the public, such as only the law schools can make. Their detachment, their scholarly resources, their growing influence with the Bar, all indicate plainly enough that it is they who must take the more active part in solving the problems which weigh upon our profession perhaps as never before. They, as can no others, may assemble and portray the facts which reveal, so that all may see, the manner in which the Bar is performing its functions and, portraying them, stir the latent idealism of lawyers to carry on.   It is equally true that the Bar cannot sit by and leave the burden entirely upon the law schools. In the light of information which they may make available the Bar must assume the responsibility of consciously bringing its conduct to conform to new standards fitting the times in which we live. And unless history reverses itself the cooperation and support of leaders of the Bar will not be wanting. There could be no more reassuring example of the possibility of drawing upon the reserves of wisdom, patriotism, and idealism of our profession in a cooperative effort to advance the public interest than that afforded by the Institute of Law. For more than ten years the judges, the leading practitioners of the country, and the representatives of our great schools of law have united in the sustained, self-sacrificing, harmonious effort of the Institute to bring order out of the chaos of some six centuries’ *13 accumulation of judicial precedent. One cannot doubt that a profession capable of such a demonstration of its capacity for united and disinterested public service can meet and solve these new and difficult problems.   Nor will such an effort want for public support. The lawyer in America has reached his highest position in public esteem when public questions have been in some degree identified with the forms of legal right with which he is most familiar. The historic controversies, of which the bill of rights was the fruition, the struggle against taxation without representation, for immunity from arbitrary searches and seizures and from writs of assistance, for the freedom of the press, for trial by jury, involved questions with which the lawyers of the time, by training, experience and inclination, were peculiarly fitted to deal. Public questions were those with which the lawyer was most familiar. Today anti-social business practices which have not yet met with our refusal to countenance them, are equally in the public thought. It is true that the parallel to the earlier era is not precise, for many of these practices are still within the law, and to stand against them it is necessary that we do more than defend legal rights; it is needful that we look beyond the club of the policeman as a civilizing agency to the sanctions of professional standards which condemn the doing of what the law has not yet forbidden. But in taking such a stand we may count upon the same support which the lawyers of that earlier time had from the lay world. It was no more vital to that day that free speech should be preserved than it is to our own that those who act as fiduciaries in the strategic positions of our business civilization, should be held to those standards of scrupulous fidelity which society has the right to demand.   There is opportunity, too, for a new emphasis in the training of the young men who, thronging the lecture rooms of the law schools today, will give character and direction to our profession tomorrow. From the beginning the law schools have steadily raised their intellectual standards. It is not too much to say that they have worshiped the proficiency which they have sought and attained to a remarkable degree. But there is grave danger to the public if this proficiency be directed wholly to private ends without thought of the social consequences, and we may well pause to *14 consider whether the professional school has done well to neglect so completely the inculcation of some knowledge of the social responsibility which rests upon a public profession. I do not refer to the teaching of professional ethics. I have no thought that men are made moral by the mere formulation of rules of conduct, no matter how solemnly bar associations may pronounce them, or that they may be made good by mere exhortation. But men serve causes because of their devotion to them. The zeal of the student for proficiency in the law, like that of his elder brother at the Bar, comes from a higher source than selfishness. It is devotion to his conception of a useful and worthy institution. But that conception is a distorted one if it envisages only the cultivation of skill without thought of how and to what end it is to be used, and the question what the law schools have done and can do to make that conception truer is one to be pondered and to be answered. It is not beyond the power of institutions which have so successfully mastered the art of penetrating all the intricacies of legal doctrine to impart a truer understanding of the functions of those who are to be its servants. That understanding will come, not from platitudinous exhortation, but from knowledge of the consequences of the failure of a profession to bear its social responsibilities, and what it is doing and may do to meet them.   And so I recur to the question which I raised a little time ago, whether Mr. Cook was right in his belief that we can continue to look to the Bar for the preservation and development of American institutions, and I answer it confidently in the affirmative. It will realize that expectation as he contemplated that it would, through the growing influence of the law schools, whose character, as he declared, determines the character of the legal profession; through closer association and coöperation of this and other schools of law with the Bar in the worthy task of building up a new morale in the profession, fitted to the new conditions under which it must do its work. It is a happy augury for the future that the central idea around which this institution, so nobly conceived, has been built is that the continued capacity of the profession to guide the development of American institutions involves an educational process in which its schools rightly have their part.