 Mr. Wechsler, the editor of the New York Post, has written an absorbing political biography. The occasion for its publication is Wechsler’s famous tilt with Senator McCarthy. To this reviewer, Mr. Wechsler’s presentation of this encounter is not the *404 most interesting part of his book. The fascinating part of Mr. Wechsler’s story is its relation of his development from a sensitive, idealistic young man to campus radical, to Communist, and then to fighting liberal. This is the deeply moving story of the book. The McCarthy epilogue is an ugly excrescence. It has nothing to do with Wechsler. It neither detracts from the man nor substantially adds to his considerable stature. It is not a part of Wechsler’s political biography. It is a footnote to the history of a time of national sickness, and an addendum to the disagreeable story of Joseph McCarthy.   Wechsler was just under sixteen when he entered Columbia in 1931. The great depression had shaken his world. Wechsler, like countless others of his generation, was rebellious against the apparent bankruptcy of our ideas and leadership. Inevitably, he joined the voices of protest. His decision in 1934 to join the Young Communist League was in part induced by two professors whom he admired. Basically, it was due to a motive typical of the pains of youth, to his feeling that he would be yielding to timidity if he did not join the Communists.   After he joined the Communist party, Wechsler became something of a functionary in its youth movement. He was a writer and speaker and a participant in united-front organizations of young people. His narration of his activities on behalf of the Communist organization is extremely instructive. With a degree of objectivity that few ex-Communists are able to achieve, Wechsler recalls his occasional “deviations” from the party line; the “rebukes” that were administered to him; and his efforts to square his acceptance of party discipline with his own aggressive and independent intelligence and conscience.   By 1937 Wechsler’s romance with the Communist party was drawing to a close. Doubts ripened into conviction that the heroic martyrdom that communism seemed to offer was nothing more than enlistment in an army designed for conquest and not for liberation. Wechsler puts the question which was then beginning to plague him in these words: Which was the communist reality--the young man of flaming spirit and great promise who had lost his life in Spain or the dour commissar warning against the use of one’s own mind?     In the summer of 1937, Wechsler visited Europe and the Soviet *405 Union. In Prague he met Paul Hagen who had abandoned communism and was carrying on a dedicated struggle for freedom and democracy as an independent liberal. This meeting was of profound significance. Hagen was proof to Wechsler of a fact that he had rejected when he joined the Communist movement: That there are real alternatives to communism for dedicated, unselfish, resolute liberals; that the choice need not be between communism and reaction, or communism and dilettantism.   All of this had happened to Wechsler before he had reached the age of twenty-two. When he returned to the United States in the late summer of 1937, he was through with communism.   Wechsler was fortunate. In 1937 it was possible for the known Communist to leave the party and to find quiet acceptance elsewhere. It was not dogma in those days that the only reliable ex-Communist is an inventive professional informer. Wechsler made no secret of his Communist history, but he nevertheless found acceptance and employment among non-Communists for his dedication to liberalism, his outstanding journalistic talents and his splendid integrity.   Wechsler had joined the Communist movement because of idealism; he left it because he found that it was a false and fraudulent instrument. When he left it he did not repudiate his ideals. He faithfully sought a true, and not a false medium in which they might be served. He has served them admirably as a newspaper correspondent, an editor and a citizen. He has been unrelenting in his attack upon communism. He has been equally unremitting in his fight against McCarthy and other enemies of freedom. No one entitled to claim the attribute of honesty can honestly challenge Wechsler’s integrity and his wholehearted dedication to the cause of freedom. Wechsler became and remains a fighting liberal, equally opposed to Communist and non-Communist repression.   Wechsler narrates his career as a liberal at some length in the section of his book that he entitles The Age of Responsibility. At times, this narration seems to this reviewer to be a bit tedious, perhaps because even Wechsler cannot always avoid conveying the impression that since he was once a Communist, he has special competence in combating them. He does not prove the point. In fact, the book adds nothing to the analysis of communism or *406 Communists, apart from its story of Wechsler’s own development.   In May of 1949 Wechsler was appointed editor of the New York Post. He has been highly successful in this position. He has been largely responsible for the Post’s financial progress as well as its sturdy liberal values. In September of 1951 the Post published a seventeen-part series on Senator McCarthy. The nature of this series was indicated by its title: “Smear, Inc.: Joe McCarthy’s One-Man Mob.” In the following months, the Post continued its criticism of the Senator. It also printed articles criticizing others who have made careers of the anti-Communist crusade.   Apparently Wechsler did not fully anticipate that these attacks were bound to lead to retaliation. They did. The usual ring of certain newspapers, columnists, “investigators” and legislators rose to the counterattack. Wechsler’s youthful Communist affiliations were widely publicized as if they were news--despite the fact that Wechsler had frequently made full disclosure of them. As anyone familiar with the techniques of the ring would expect, the attacks ignored Wechsler’s severance of Communist connections in 1937 and his subsequent anti-Communist history.   After the Republican victories in the last presidential election, and after Senator McCarthy was invested with the power of a congressional committee, Wechsler received a subpoena. He appeared before Senator McCarthy and his staff in executive session. Senator McCarthy had the merest pretext for jurisdiction. Books written by Wechsler, which were never identified, had been placed, without Wechsler’s knowledge, in libraries maintained abroad by the United States Information Service. Accordingly, government funds had been expended. Accordingly, Senator McCarthy and his committee were entitled to inquire into Wechsler’s views and the policies of his newspaper. Actually, the “hearings” were undisguised attacks upon the editorial policies of the New York Post. The Senator left no doubt that the purpose of the inquisition was to punish Mr. Wechsler for publishing articles critical of the Senator.   Wechsler’s narration of his encounter with Senator McCarthy contains little that is new. The manner in which the record of his activities was distorted may be shocking; but it is no longer novel to persons familiar with the activities of congressional subversion seekers. Even the Communist attacks made upon *407 Wechsler after Wechsler became vigorously anti-Communist were perverted to support the Senator’s accusation that Wechsler had continued his Communist affiliation. Wechsler was accused of responsibility for the denunciations of himself as part of a plot to conceal his Communist connections so that he could more effectively attempt to undermine Senator McCarthy.   Perhaps the most shocking thing about the McCarthy-Wechsler encounter is the refusal of influential segments of the American press to regard the Senator’s assault upon Wechsler as an attack upon the freedom of the press. If there was ever, in this country, an assault upon the editorial policy of a newspaper under the cloak of official authority, this was it.   Mr. Wechsler’s book--particularly his narration of the events leading to his joining the Communist party, of his career in the party and of his break with it--are a first-rate contribution. Mr. Wechsler has provided us with an opportunity to obtain a deeper insight into the phenomenon of the generation which was for a time ensnared by the deceptive lure of communism.  