 I. My text is a passage from de Tocqueville:   In their political associations the Americans, of all conditions, minds, and ages, daily acquire a general taste for association and grow accustomed to the use of it. There they meet together in large numbers, they converse, they listen to one another, and they are mutually stimulated to all sorts of undertakings. They afterwards transfer to civil life the notions they have thus acquired and make them subservient to a thousand purposes. Thus it is by the enjoyment of a dangerous freedom that the Americans learn the art of rendering the dangers of freedom less formidable.1     The right of association is closely related to the right to believe as one chooses and to the right of privacy in those beliefs.   Beginning at least with John Locke, man was considered not an isolated person but as a member of a group. Yet as Gardner Murphy has pointed out, in prior centuries he was viewed almost without reference to society: “Today, the fact that every individual is deeply immersed in the life of a group, being shaped and defined by group membership, roles, and responsibilities, is so patent that one can only marvel that at one time it had been so nearly forgotten.”2 The individual character takes shape “as an aspect of the delicate system of interpersonal relations.”3   Talcott Parsons has particularized the need of the individual to identify himself with groups: solidarity with an informal group, the appeal of which is to “infrarational” sentiments, is a peculiarly potent measure for allaying the neurotic types of anxiety which are so common. On the other hand, an antagonistic group is a peculiarly appropriate symbolic object on which to displace the emotional reactions which cannot be openly expressed within one’s own group, lest they threaten its *1362 solidarity. In this whole context it is peculiarly appropriate that groups be available in relation to which the ambivalent structure of emotions ... can be expressed.4   Joining groups has been a passion with Americans.     Schlesinger reviews the zeal with which Americans in the last century became the world’s greatest “joiners”: Now Americans turned with furious zeal to the creation of secret societies cut to their own pattern. In the large cities some form of organized social commingling seemed called for to replace the spontaneous friendliness of small rural towns. Liberty and equality this generation was willing to take for granted, but fraternity filled a compelling human need. Moreover, the romantic opportunity to posture before a mystic brotherhood in all the glory of robe, plume and sword restored a sense of self-importance bruised by the anonymity of life amidst great crowds. If further inducement were needed, it was supplied by the provision made by most lodges for sickness and death benefits for their members. ...   As was to be expected, membership was greatest in the urbanized sections of the country notwithstanding the energy with which the Negroes of the South aped their white brethren and the increasing interest of Western farmers in lodge activities. By the end of the period there were over six million names on the rosters of fraternal bodies. America possessed more secret societies and a larger number of “joiners” than all other nations.5 Today people join groups not only for fraternal reasons.     Our society is honeycombed with interest groups, each with its own ideology, its own creed, its own evaluation of the immediate unsatisfactory state of affairs, and its own prescription for making the world a better place to live in the future. ...   Some groups are more effective in making known the urgency of their needs or in gaining the ear of the policy maker. These groups are rewarded; others, for lack of followers or resources, less successful in pressing their cases, are not. Thus democratic equality implies not a benign or indifferent government, but only the right of every individual to join and participate in group action for the purpose of influencing and, if possible, shaping national policy.   Such a picture of democracy is sharply at odds with the more attractive Jeffersonian ideal of pluralism, which sprang from and was deeply rooted in a society overwhelmingly populated by free, independent proprietors of one kind or another. But the world of the Founding Fathers is not ours; nor can it ever be. Just as the individual or the small entrepreneur is no longer the basic political or economic power unit, so the concept of the 18th-century democracy and the theory of the competitive market is not an adequate or satisfactory intellectualization of our social system. Organizations—political, social, and economic—are the primary sources of power. To lament these hierarchic structures, to decry the gradual feudalization of our society or to deplore the gradual decline of the *1363 individual seem neither to have lessened organizational growth nor in any way changed the path of history. In the contemporary world, if one is to appreciate the workings of democracy, one must observe these power groups in action.6     If people are not allowed peacefully to band together, and if our myriad organizations are not allowed to compete on an equal plane in the battle for men’s minds, the result will be a stifling of all but the popular views. Apart from the Communist Party, few organizations in our history have been outlawed. But the modern witch-hunt has had a deleterious effect on all unpopular groups, making them a prime target for investigation. It is primarily the First Amendment that provides these groups with the protection they need if they are to remain viable and continue to contribute to our Free Society. The most natural privilege of man, next to the right of acting for himself, is that of combining his exertions with those of his fellow creatures and of acting in common with them. The right of association therefore appears to me almost as inalienable in its nature as the right of personal liberty. No legislator can attack it without impairing the foundations of society.7     Whatever may be all the reasons, the desire to associate is deep in man; and in the Western world the right of association is a part of the right of expression or of the right of belief. It is the equivalent of saying “This, I believe”; and the “This” may be racial equality, reduction of taxes, socialism, or any number of ideas or causes. The association with a particular group may mean not an expression of belief in all that the group promotes but only in one or two parts of a program that seem to one member to be the most critical. A discriminating selection of issues expoused by the group is customary rather than unusual. Even a Democrat often does not approve everything his party champions.   The latent force in association is great—so great that suppression of it may lead in the end to mass explosions. The idea has been succinctly stated by Ernest Cuneo: It is a fair hypothesis that there is a latent force in every human being which can be marshaled and multiplied by mass hypnosis; that is, by proximity to large number of human beings of similar identities bent on expressing the energy of those identities. Indeed, the American sports term “fan” is an abbreviation of the word “fanatic.” Of the wondrous transcendent power of this fanaticism, the history books furnish ample illustration.   From this it is a fair scientific assumption that if such energies were released individually, they would not explode en masse. It *1364 would follow, therefore, that the curtailment of the movements of the individual leads to mass explosion.8 De Tocqueville stated the corollary: “in countries where associations are free, secret societies are unknown. In America there are factions, but no conspiracies.”9       When we treat the right of association we treat therefore with a force that supplies some of the mucilage of society when allowed free play or causes disintegration when it is suppressed.   II. The matter of belief has created some of the bloodiest chapters of history. The phrase “Big Brother is Watching You,” which George Orwell made famous in his book 1984, is not a new one. It has been reflected in most governmental regimes from the beginning of time by sectarian rulers bent on ferreting out heretics, by secular rulers looking for the ideological “subversive.” The Inquisition in Europe and the Star Chamber in England were typical of the institutions that gave force to such regimes. Kings, sitting on uneasy thrones, always sought out the “subversives” amongst their people. Those who schemed and plotted against the king, collecting arms, making plans for assassinations and seizure of government arsenals, were of course punished for their overt acts. But what of those sullen, silent people who wished the king were dead but never put their wishes into action? What greater uneasiness is there than that created by a host of enemies who have not moved into action but may do so? The law—which was usually the instrument of the ruler—designed a method of reaching this “subversive” group.   British law made it a treasonable crime to “compass or imagine the death of ... the King,”10 the crime known as constructive treason. This crime was borrowed from Dionysius (430-367 B.C.) who executed a subject for dreaming he had killed him. That was sufficient proof, Dionysius said, that the subject had thought about killing him when he was awake.   Jefferson said that this crime of constructive treason “had drawn the Blood of the best and honestest Men in the Kingdom.”11 Men were indeed executed merely for uttering treasonable words. In 1351 the British Parliament, while retaining as one definition of treason the compassing and imagining the death of the King, ameliorated the plight of the suspects by requiring that there be an overt act. In other words, wishing that the King were dead was not enough. Doing something about it was necessary. The *1365 deed, rather than the thought alone, became a necessary ingredient of the crime. But reducing treasonable words to writing was considered an overt act. The ease with which the concept of an overt act was expanded resulted in the American narrow definition of treason viz: “only in levying war” against the United States “or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort.” Since, moreover, the treasonable act might be only a drummed-up charge, the Framers of our Constitution provided that in order for a charge of treason to be proved, it was necessary to have two witnesses to each overt act.12   While kings were fearful of treason, theologians were bent on stamping out heresy. One of the charges against Socrates was “impiety”—that is to say, he denied the existence of the gods that had been recognized by the state. Every religion at some time and place has been denounced as heresy; and those in power have tried to put it down. Sects within Christianity have shown the same intolerance. The Reformation is associated with Martin Luther. But prior to him it broke out many times only to be crushed. When in time the Protestants gained control, they tried to crush the Catholics; and when the Catholics gained the upper hand, they ferreted out the Protestants. Many devices were used. Heretical books were destroyed and heretics were burned at the stake or banished. Thus William Tyndale, who translated the Bible into the vernacular of the sixteenth century, was driven from England, caught by the Inquisition, tried for heresy, condemned, strangled and burned at the stake. What men believed so bothered some theologians that the remains of John Wycliffe, who translated the Bible from Latin to English, were exhumed and burned in 1428.   The rack, the thumbscrew, the wheel on which men were stretched, these were part of the paraphernalia. Modern techniques of “brainwashing,” artistically used in modern Communist regimes, have led thousands to cast aside their principles and bow in submission and say with the hero of George Orwell’s novel 1984 that they “had won the victory” over themselves and “loved Big Brother.”   In the old days those charged with the crime of printing books without a license and those charged with heresy were required to take the oath ex officio.   The oath ex officio made unnecessary an indictment, trial by jury, and, confrontation of accusing witnesses. The judge ex officio, i.e., by virtue of his office as judge, summoned the party to court on suspicion, on probable cause, or on whim or caprice, and instituted action against him. It was this practice of requiring the accused to testify or to go to jail for contempt that was ended in England by Act of Parliament in 1368. After that a presentment or indictment was necessary to require a man to answer. But *1366 this practice obtained only in the King’s Courts. The ecclesiastical courts and the notorious Star Chamber continued to use the oath ex officio. The Puritans learned that this was the most awesome power the government had over them. It was used to make them follow objectionable religious ceremonies, to punish them for speech and thought, and to ferret out the nonconformists who surreptitiously published “dangerous” tracts. Thus experience overseas brought to these shores bitterness against devices that forced men to convict themselves against conscience and dignity out of their own mouths. Two trials touching freedom of the press were burned into the memories of the American colonists, the use of the oath ex officio against John Udall in 1589 and John Lilburn in 1647.   Thomas More refused to take an oath sustaining an Act of Parliament making the King the head ecclesiastical authority: MORE: I insult no one. I will not take the oath. I will not tell you why I will not.   NORFOLK: Then your reasons must be treasonable!   MORE: Not “must be”; may be.   NORFOLK: It’s a fair assumption!   MORE: The law requires more than an assumption; the law requires a fact. ...   CRANMER: I cannot judge your legal standing in the case; but until I know the ground of your objections, I can only guess your spiritual standing too.   MORE: ... If you’re willing to guess at that, Your Grace, it should be a small matter to guess my objections.   CROMWELL: ... You do have objections to the Act?   NORFOLK: ... Well, we know that, Cromwell!   MORE: You don’t, my lord. You may suppose I have objections. All you know is that I will not swear to it. From sheer delight to give you trouble it might be.   NORFOLK: Is it material why you won’t?   MORE: It’s most material. For refusing to swear, my goods are forfeit and I am condemned to life imprisonment. You cannot lawfully harm me further. But if you were right in supposing I had reasons for refusing and right again in supposing my reasons to be treasonable, the law would let you cut my head off.13     The test oath has plagued this generation. The oath is old; but never before was it able to bring about the complete ruination of a person. In this complex, interdependent society there is no escape to a frontier where life can start over. A person of scruples who refuses the oath and a person who cannot take it because he once sinned are both thrown into the outer darkness to become the modern untouchables.   This history is not well known to this generation. The Fifth Amendment’s guarantee against Self Incrimination—a hard-won right which hundreds of people gave their sweat, blood, and lives to establish—is treated derisively. *1367 Electronics have produced devices which make it easy to invade the privacy of the individual whether he be at home, in his office, or on the street; and they have made a shambles of the Fourth Amendment. The history of man’s right to be let alone, the relation of that right to freedom of expression and association, guaranteed by the First Amendment, and his aversion to the test oath and to loyalty oaths have been mostly forgotten.   These rights seem more precious in the Dominican Republic than they do at home, for the people of that nation have fresh memories of Trujillo’s atrocities. In thirty-two years he tortured to death 200,000 people. Dominicans today carry marks of their torture, one common badge being scars from live cigarettes. There is current in the Republic the story of three women who became “subversive” because they summoned friends to pray for an end of the tyranny. They died under Trujillo’s torture without disclosing the names of their friends. One had her tongue cut out; one with long tresses died when her head was set on fire; one had sharp sticks driven through her neck. Some police in the United States still practice the third degree. But it is not so widespread and so well-known as to result in public apprehension and aversion.   This right to be let alone and its relation not only to the Fifth Amendment but to the First and Fourth Amendments as well is an increasingly important one in the setting of the 1960’s. For not only are the means of penetrating all forms of individual and group privacy and of marshalling public opinion against unpopular minorities and views becoming more highly developed, but the will to resist erosion of our basic rights also seems to be on the wane.   Whether an individual seeks to be let alone with his thoughts or in the sanctuary of his home, or seeks to associate with others for the attainment of lawful purposes, his interest in being free from governmental interference is the same. And, except for the limited situation where there is “probable cause” for believing that he is involved in a crime, both federal and state governments’ disability to intrude upon him must be equally complete if we are to retain the Free Society envisioned by the Bill of Rights.   III. Recognition of the importance of this principle has led to many attempts to apply the Bill of Rights to the States. The first appears in Barron v. Baltimore14 decided in 1833. The argument was that the Fifth Amendment, “being in favor of the liberty of the citizen, ought to be so construed as to restrain the legislative power of a state, as well as that of the United States.”15 *1368 The Court rejected the argument and the result was accepted without dissent until the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment.16   The theory was adumbrated by Justices Bradley and Swayne in the Slaughter-House Cases17 that the Bill of Rights defined part of the “privileges or immunities” within the meaning of that part of the Fourteenth Amendment which provides that “No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States ....” That view obtained the adherence of Justices Field, Harlan, and Brewer in O’Neil v. Vermont.18 Justice Brewer apparently had second thoughts about the matter and changed his mind, since he voted with the majority in Maxwell v. Dow19 holding, over the first Justice Harlan’s dissent, that the grand and petit jury provisions of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments do not apply to the States. Justice Harlan also consistently maintained that certain of the safeguards of the Bill of Rights were binding on the States through the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which provides “[N]or shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law ....”20 He urged an historical approach to Due Process.21   The Privileges or Immunities Clause had a short resurgence of vitality in Colgate v. Harvey,22 where a majority of the Court held that the right to engage in business was a privilege of national citizenship protected against state action by the Privileges or Immunities Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. That case, however, was overruled in Madden v. Kentucky;23 and meanwhile only one recurrence of the privileges and immunities theory has appeared and that was in the civil rights area.24   The other attempt to incorporate the entire Bill of Rights into the Fourteenth Amendment is represented by Adamson v. California,25 where four Justices (Black, Douglas, Murphy and Rutledge) expressed the view that the various parts of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment, including the Due Process Clause, incorporated the entire Bill of Rights. Justices Murphy and Rutledge expressed a variation of that view in the Adamson case26 to the effect that perhaps something more than the Bill of Rights was made binding on the States by the Fourteenth Amendment. I expressed a similar view in Poe v. Ullman.27   *1369 Other views are afoot today besides those expressed in the Adamson dissent. One is that recently discussed by Justice Brennan.28 It is most usually attributed to Justice Cardozo and says that certain “fundamental” principles of liberty and justice are essential to a scheme of “ordered liberty.”29 It was formulated in the recent case of Gideon v. Wainwright as follows: those guarantees of the Bill of Rights which are fundamental safeguards of liberty immune from federal abridgment are equally protected against state invasion by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.30     Another view is represented by Justice Frankfurter’s opinions in Adamson v. California31 and Rochin v. California.32 According to that approach, the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is to be determined by judges “within the limits of accepted notions of justice ....”33 Decision, it is said, must turn on whether the State’s conduct or procedure offends “those canons of decency and fairness which express the notions of justice of English-speaking peoples even toward those charged with the most heinous offenses.”34 While this school of thought insists that selection of the particular provisions of the Bill of Rights that come within those “canons of decency and fairness” is not to be based “upon the idiosyncracies of a merely personal judgment,”35 a moment’s reflection shows how defeating that premise is. For the ideas of decency and fairness vary from judge to judge. And, if the consensus of the majority is thought to be the proper reference for determining these “canons,” it should be remembered that the Bill of Rights is premised on the belief that there are some things even a majority, acting through its “government,” cannot do.   Irrespective of the way the absorption has taken place, we now have applicable to the States various provisions of the Bill of Rights: First Amendment rights;36 Fourth Amendment rights;37 the Just Compensation Clause of the Fifth Amendment;38 part of the Self Incrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment;39 and the Right to Counsel Clause of the Sixth Amendment.40   The First Amendment provides that “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise *1370 thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.”   Some have believed that these restraints as applied to the States through the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment are less restrictive on them than they are on the Federal Government. That is the view of the second Justice Harlan.41 Justice Jackson expressed the same view in Beauharnais v. Illinois,42 but that view has not prevailed.43 The Court has indeed applied the same First Amendment requirements to the States as to the Federal Government, a holding clearly inconsistent with the view that First Amendment rights protected against state invasion by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth are a watered-down version of what the First Amendment guarantees.   IV. I mention this history in some detail because even those in high places do not understand it. Recently the Dean of the Harvard Law School criticized the Court’s decision in Engel v. Vitale,44 holding unconstitutional New York’s requirement for opening public schools with prayer; and the Dean seemed to have difficulty in seeing how the command of the First Amendment that “Congress shall make no law” can be read to mean a “State shall make no law.” He said the “majority” was being made to “give up its cultural heritage and tradition” simply because it was being denied power to foist its chosen prayers onto the public schools, which all must support and many “minorities,” of necessity, must attend. Yet prayer in the home was not proscribed, and no church was closed. Perhaps reflecting his own bias, the Dean also said that it was desirable that the children who belong to minority groups learn “what it means to be a member of a minority” and to learn that their “difference is tolerated and accepted.”45 But the First Amendment assures minorities more than “toleration”; it allows them to compete evenly with more popular groups in the battle for men’s minds, and it denies the majority power to force the minority to submit. All segments of society are given freedom to learn what moral and political lessons they chose to learn.   History should teach us that most people are sincere in their beliefs, and that the stronger the belief—especially a belief relating to matters of *1371 the mind and heart—the greater the drive to foist it upon others. Only if the First Amendment retains its role as a bulwark against positions of governmental power being used to convey and enforce views of a religious or philosophical nature will we be able to avoid not only the bitter strife that will attend the struggle to gain control of these positions, but also the deadly dullness that will result if the struggle is ever completely won.   V. If the legislative branch, at the state or federal level, were the guardian of the Constitution as it is in England, it rather than the judiciary would have the final say as to what rights the Constitution secures to the people. But since Marbury v. Madison,46 decided in 1803, it has been deemed the duty of the Supreme Court not only to construe legislative enactments and enforce legislative requirements but also to pass on the constitutionality of action by the Congress and the Chief Executive, when it touches on justiciable matters. “[T]he framers of the Constitution contemplated that instrument as a rule for the government of courts, as well as of the legislature.”47 Chief Justice Marshall, writing for a unanimous Court, went on to say: Why otherwise does it direct the judges to take an oath to support it? This oath certainly applies in an especial manner, to their conduct in their official character. How immoral to impose it on them, if they were to be used as the instruments, and the knowing instruments, for violating what they swear to support!48     From the beginning, the Congress—which by virtue of Article III, Section 2, determines the Supreme Court’s appellate jurisdiction—has granted it power to determine whether state decisions comport with the Constitution or other federal law. That enactment was early upheld.49 And it was the policy behind that enactment that Mr. Justice Holmes had in mind when he said: I do not think the United States would come to an end if we lost our power to declare an Act of Congress void. I do think the Union would be imperiled if we could not make that declaration as to the laws of the several States. For one in my place sees how often a local policy prevails with those who are not trained to national views and how often action is taken that embodies what the Commerce Clause was meant to end.50     The need of a referee in our federal system has increased with the passage of time, not only in matters of commerce but in the field of civil *1372 rights as well. There is a critical need for a federal agency with power to review all state action threatening individuals’ rights if the Free Society envisioned by the Bill of Rights and existing under a federal regime is to be our ideal. For in times of crisis, when ideologies clash, it is not easy to engender respect for the dignity of suspect minorities and for debate of unpopular issues.   News around the world brings fresh accounts of regimes of intolerance: the editing of public school text books in Mexico to make them anti-government and pro-church and to conceal from students that the leader of the Mexican independence movement was a priest and its chief opponent the church; Nkrumah and his bills of attainder in Ghana; the South Korean regime and its host of ex post facto laws and its attempts to keep civilians out of politics; the arrest in Turkey of a man who wrote that Turkey’s future lay in socialism; the discipline of artists, writers, and composers in the Soviet Union who conceive of the arts as something other than propaganda for the Communist philosophy. But we have similar episodes at home to which we have become insensitive.   A professor is discharged because he saw some improvement under Castro in the lot of the peon in Cuba. The Montana legislature orders a professor investigated because he said that right-wing influence in the State threatened to make Montana “remain a backwater of Bircherism while the country progresses.” Under a new law the postal officials can stop in customs all material coming from Russia that they deem to be “propaganda,” which would include, I would imagine, alpine photographs and descriptions of the lovely high basins and the rugged peaks of Russian mountain ranges. The manner in which our school libraries are tested for ideological conformity is told by Nelson and Roberts in The Censors and the Schools (1963). When government can investigate what people are reading or what causes they are advocating, have we not brought Big Brother to life?   VI. In recent years the legislative investigating committee has posed a problem of great significance in the field of civil liberties, as evidenced by Gibson v. Florida Legislative Investigation Comm.,51 where the Court held that a state investigating committee could not require the NAACP to disclose whether known Communists were members of the organization. “The committee ... [had] not ‘demonstrated so cogent an interest in obtaining and making public’ the membership information sought ... as to ‘justify the substantial abridgment of associational freedom which such disclosures ... [would] effect.’ “52 Since Congress can make “no law” abridging freedom *1373 of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, and freedom of assembly and since the First Amendment applied to the States means that no such law can be made by a State, it would seem that the power to investigate those matters is lacking.   When the State or Federal Government is prohibited from legislating on a subject, it has no constitutional privilege to investigate it. For the power to investigate is only an adjunct of the power to legislate—an auxiliary power “necessary and appropriate to that end.”53 Investigation to determine how constitutional laws are being administered marks one limitation. An investigation to determine what constitutional laws should be passed is another. An investigation to permit a legislature properly to perform its powers of internal management is a third.54 When the constitutional limits of lawmaking are passed, investigation is out of bounds.55 That is to say, investigations by a legislative committee which “could result in no valid legislation on the subject” are beyond the pale.56 For it misses the whole point of our constitutional history to assume that “government,” or any branch of government, somehow has rights and powers of its own apart from those necessarily attending the proper performance of its constitutional functions. As Hannah Arendt recently said, “perhaps the greatest American innovation in politics as such was the consistent abolition of sovereignty within the body politic of the republic, the insight that in the realm of human affairs sovereignty and tyranny are the same.”57   A Free Society is made up of almost innumerable institutions through which views and opinions are expressed, opinion is mobilized, and social, economic, religious, educational, and political programs are formulated.   In the beginning we had our Committees of Correspondence. They established “speedy and direct channels” for communication with the people after the ties with England were broken. Their primary purpose was “to bring the people to understand their interests and act in concert.” They indeed enabled the people to become effective “arbiters of their own political destiny.”58   Jefferson’s grand design included a division “into hundreds”—a viable ward system through which the people exercised their rights of sovereignty.   These “wards” of Jefferson have appeared in other revolutions—in the Parisian Commune in 1871 and in the Soviets in the Russian Revolutions of this century. Robespierre, before he came to power and destroyed the sociétés populaires, praised them for their ability “‘to instruct, to enlighten *1374 their fellow citizens on the true principles of the constitution, and to spread a light without which the constitution will not be able to survive ....’ “59 For its survival, he maintained, depended on “‘the public spirit”’ which these groups alone could engender.60 It was the crushing of the Soviets that led to the Russian dictatorship with the result that the name Soviet Union has been “a lie ever since.”61   Joining a lawful organization, like attending a church, is an associational activity that comes within the purview of the First Amendment. “Peaceably to assemble” necessarily involves a coming together, whether regularly or spasmodically. A coming together is often necessary for communication—for those who listen as well as those who speak. Demosthenes, it is said, went to the seashore and declaimed to the waves in order to correct a stammer. But normally a speaker implies an audience. Joining a group is often as vital to freedom of expression as utterance itself. Registering as a student in a school or joining a faculty is as vital to freedom of expression as joining a church is to the free exercise of religion. Joining a political party may be as critical to expression of one’s views as hiring reporters is to the establishment of a free press.   Historically the right to assemble was secondary to the right to petition, the latter being the primary right. But today, as the Court said in De Jonge v. Oregon,62 “the right of peaceful assembly is a right cognate to those of free speech and free press and is equally fundamental.” Assembly, like speech, is indeed essential “in order to maintain the opportunity for free political discussion, to the end that the government may be responsive to the will of the people and that changes, if desired, may be obtained by peaceful means.”63 “The holding of meetings for peaceable political action cannot be proscribed.”64 Unpopular groups65 like popular ones are protected. Unpopular groups, if forced to undergo extensive investigation or disclose their membership lists, will not only lose many adherents but may also suffer reprisals or other forms of public hostility.66 But whether a group is popular or unpopular, the right of privacy implicit in the First Amendment creates an area into which the Government may not enter.   Justice Frankfurter thought that political and academic affiliations have a preferred position under the due process version of the First Amendment.67 But the associational rights protected by the First Amendment are in my *1375 view much broader and cover the entire spectrum in political ideology as well as in art, in journalism, in teaching, and in religion. In my view, government can neither legislate with respect to nor probe the intimacies of political, spiritual, or intellectual relationships in the myriad of lawful societies and groups, whether popular or unpopular, that exist in this country.   If that is not true, I see no barrier to investigation of newspapers, churches, political parties, clubs, societies, unions, and any other association—for their political, economic, social, philosophical, or religious views. As Arthur M. Schlesinger said: In the United States individualism has meant not the individual’s independence of other individuals, but his as well as their independence of governmental restraint. Traditionally, Americans have distrusted collective organization as embodied in government while insisting upon their own untrammeled right to form voluntary associations. This conception of a state of minimal powers actually made it necessary for private citizens to organize for undertakings too large for a single person. By reverse effect the success of such enterprises hindered the enlargement of governmental authority.   The trend toward collective activity began slowly in American history, but it gathered impetus as the years revealed new opportunities and men perceived the advantages to be gained. Broadly speaking, the rise of associations paralleled the development of democratic self-confidence and the greater complexity of social and economic life. Each fresh application of the principle opened the way for further ones and at the same time afforded the experience needed for more extensive undertakings. In the end no department of human existence remained unaffected.68     Private organizations often pursue unpopular causes, which produces a great desire to control them. Suppose that some Congressional Committee decides that racial segregation is detrimental to our national defense and foreign relations and that integration in all walks of our public life is vital to our survival as a nation. Suppose further that, in order to ascertain what type of legislation is necessary to further integration, the committee seeks to determine the effectiveness of such organizations as the Black Muslims and the various White Citizens Councils. Could the Committee require these organizations to turn over their membership lists,69 their mailing lists,70 or divulge whether Communists were engaged in writing their tracts?71 The majority would term the legislative purpose benevolent and wise. But if such a beneficent program justifies this type of investigation it would also justify scrutiny of the Catholic Church to determine whether changes should be wrought in its effort to integrate parish schools in Louisiana. And a change in the Committee’s view concerning the merits of integration would *1376 seemingly justify an investigation of private groups such as the NAACP to determine how effective they are in promoting integration. But, as the Court recently said, The Constitution protects expression and association without regard to race, creed, or political or religious affiliation of the members of the group which invokes its shield, or to the truth, popularity, or social utility of the ideas and beliefs which are offered.72     The First Amendment provides a shield of anonymity for the members of unpopular but lawful groups. In Talley v. California,73 the Court held unconstitutional an ordinance requiring handbills to disclose the name and address of the distributor or printer. The Court said, Anonymous pamphlets, leaflets, brochures and even books have played an important role in the progress of mankind. Persecuted groups and sects from time to time throughout history have been able to criticize oppressive practices and laws either anonymously or not at all.74     A legislative investigating committee could not have obtained this same information even though it was pursuing a valid legislative purpose. Once the information sought had been obtained, by an investigating committee or pursuant to statute, the distributor’s or printer’s right of anonymity would have been invaded.   Whether a group is popular or unpopular, the right of privacy implicit in the First Amendment should create an area into which the Government may not enter. Freedom of religion and freedom of speech guaranteed by the First Amendment give more than the privilege to worship, to write, to speak as one chooses; they give freedom not to do nor to act as the government chooses. The First Amendment in its respect for the conscience of the individual honors the sanctity of thought and belief. To think as one chooses, to believe what one wishes are important aspects of the constitutional right to be let alone.75     There is no other course consistent with the Free Society envisioned by the First Amendment. For the views a citizen entertains, the beliefs he harbors, the utterances he makes, the ideology he embraces, and the people he associates with are no concern to government—until and unless he moves into action. That article of faith marks indeed the main difference between the Free Society which we espouse and the dictatorships both on the Left and on the Right.   *1377 As Mr. Justice Black said (dissenting) in Barenblatt v. United States:76 The fact is that once we allow any group which has some political aims or ideas to be driven from the ballot and from the battle for men’s minds because some of its members are bad and some of its tenets are illegal, no group is safe. Today we deal with Communists or suspected Communists. In 1920, instead, the New York Assembly suspended duly elected legislators on the ground that, being Socialists, they were disloyal to the country’s principles. In the 1830’s the Masons were hunted as outlaws and subversives, and abolitionists were considered revolutionaries of the most dangerous kind in both North and South. Earlier still, at the time of the universally un-lamented alien and sedition laws, Thomas Jefferson’s party was attacked and its members were derisively called “Jacobins.” Fisher Ames described the party as a “French faction” guilty of “subversion” and “officered, regimented and formed to subordination.” Its members, he claimed, intended to “take arms against the laws as soon as they dare.” History should teach us then, that in times of high emotional excitement minority parties and groups which advocate extremely unpopular social or governmental innovations will always be typed as criminal gangs and attempts will always be made to drive them out. It was knowledge of this fact, and of its great dangers, that caused the Founders of our land to enact the First Amendment as a guarantee that neither Congress nor the people would do anything to hinder or destroy the capacity of individuals and groups to seek converts and votes for any cause, however radical or unpalatable their principles might seem under the accepted notions of the time.     A future swing to the Right may produce a national conviction that our survival as a Nation lies only with “Fortress America.” An Internal Security or Foreign Relations Committee may then ferret out those who once believed in the United Nations and the Rule of Law in world affairs; for they will want information about who might presently hold such views; and this information will have to be obtained to ascertain whether new laws are needed in the interest of self-preservation, “the ultimate value of any society.”77 A swing to the Left may convince almost all that survival as a “society” lies only with world federalism and that Nation-State sovereignty can only produce nuclear war that will destroy mankind. In the first case past members of the Americans for Democratic Action, and in the second case past members of the John Birch Society, will be exposed to ridicule and denied employment, or even tossed in jail if they refuse to respond to questioning; new test oaths will be devised.   If a group is engaging in acts or a course of conduct that is criminal, it can be prosecuted, and it and its members can be investigated, save as the Self-incrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment sets up a barrier.78 In *1378 Louisiana ex rel. Gremillion v. NAACP,79 a state statute requiring the NAACP to register and disclose its membership lists was involved. Enforcement of that law was denied on the ground that the legislature was “in an area where, as Shelton v. Tucker80 ... emphasized, any regulation must be highly selective in order to survive challenge under the First Amendment.”81 At one extreme is criminal conduct which cannot have shelter in the First Amendment. At the other extreme are regulatory measures which, no matter how sophisticated, cannot be employed in purpose or in effect to stifle, penalize, or curb the exercise of First Amendment rights.82     A Florida court, in sustaining an examination of the files of the NAACP on the ground that Communists were members of it said that a requirement of nondisclosure would provide an “ideological asylum for those who would destroy by violence the very foundations upon which their governmental sanctuary stands.”83 But there was no showing that the NAACP was engaged in any criminal activity of any kind. The same court in Graham v. Florida Legislative Investigation Comm.,84 conceded that the NAACP was “an organization perfectly legitimate but allegedly unpopular in the community.” Whether it had members who were Communists or who had committed crimes was immaterial.   Most groups are organized for a limited purpose. And, while members of any organization may be in general agreement regarding its primary purpose, their views as to how best to effectuate that purpose will vary greatly. Their views on other matters may be poles apart, as I have already said. In International Ass’n of Machinists v. Street,85 the Court recognized this fact insofar as mandatory organizations are concerned and construed the Railway Labor Act86 as prohibiting a majority of the union membership from making a minority support political causes not related to the union’s statutory purposes. I expressed the view that the same result was dictated by the First Amendment.87   A corollary is that lawful groups be free from attempts to determine whether they may contain criminal or other undesirable types. A person, even a Communist, may sincerely believe in and attempt to further the organization’s legitimate purposes, and, at least to this extent, he must be protected by the First Amendment. Even if he has no plausible and lawful *1379 purpose in joining an organization, must the other members help rout him out? Under the First Amendment it would seem that a lawful voluntary organization can no more be held responsible for the perverse views of one of its members than a member of a mandatory organization can be held responsible for the organization’s views which transcend the justification for its mandatory character.   If the files of the NAACP can be ransacked because some criminal may have joined it, then all walls of privacy are broken down. By that reasoning the records of the confessional can be ransacked because a “subversive” or a criminal was implicated. (Parenthetically confessionals were “bugged” by Trujillo in the Dominican Republic and no voice, ecclesiastical or otherwise, was raised in protest.) By that reasoning an entire church can be investigated because one member was an ideological stray or had once been a Communist or because the minister’s sermon paralleled the party line. By that reasoning the files of any society or club can be seized because members of a “subversive” group infiltrated it. When some kinds of associations are prohibited and others allowed, it is difficult to distinguish the former from the latter beforehand. In this state of doubt men abstain from them altogether, and a sort of public opinion passes current which tends to cause any association whatsoever to be regarded as a bold and almost an illicit enterprise.88     In my view the State and the Federal Government by force of the First Amendment are barred from investigating any person’s faith or ideology by summoning officers or members of his society, church, or club.   Government can intervene only when belief, thought, or expression moves into the realm of action that is inimical to society. That was Jefferson’s view. In his Bill for Establishing Religious Freedom he spoke primarily of religious liberty but in terms applicable to freedom of the mind in all of its aspects. It was his view that in the Free Society men’s ideas and beliefs, their speech and advocacy are no proper concern of government. Only when they become brigaded with action can government move against them. Jefferson said, that the opinions of men are not the object of civil government, nor under its jurisdiction; ... that it is time enough for the rightful purposes of civil government for its officers to interfere when principles break out into overt acts against peace and good order ....89     Madison too knew that tolerance for all ideas across the spectrum was the only true guarantee of freedom of the mind: Whilst all authority in it will be derived from and dependent *1380 on the society, the society itself will be broken into so many parts, interests and classes of citizens, that the rights of individuals, or of the minority, will be in little danger from interested combinations of the majority. In a free government the security for civil rights must be the same as that for religious rights. It consists in the one case in the multiplicity of interests, and in the other in the multiplicity of sects. The degree of security in both cases will depend on the number of interests and sects ....90     Once the investigator has only the conscience of government as a guide, the conscience can become “ravenous” as Cromwell, bent on destroying Thomas More, said in A Man For All Seasons.91 The First Amendment mirrors many episodes where men, harried and harassed by government, sought refuge in their conscience as these lines of Thomas More show: MORE: ... And when we stand before God, and you are sent to Paradise for doing according to your conscience, and I am damned for not doing according to mine, will you come with me, for fellowship?   CRANMER: So those of us whose names are there are damned, Sir Thomas?   MORE: I don’t know, Your Grace. I have no window to look into another man’s conscience. I condemn no one.   CRANMER: Then the matter is capable of question?   MORE: Certainly.   CRANMER: But that you owe obedience to your King is not capable of question. So weigh a doubt against a certainty—and sign.   MORE: Some men think the Earth is round, others think it flat: it is a matter capable of question. But if it is flat, will the King’s command make it round? And if it is round, will the King’s command flatten it? No, I will not sign.92     The Court was responsible for letting the camel’s nose into the tent. Speech was free, it was said, except and unless there was “clear and present danger” that the evil feared might be triggered by the speech.93 Yet it is doubtful that professional revolutionaries ever did much to advance or make revolution. The outbreak of most revolutions has surprised the revolutionist groups and parties no less than all others, and there exists hardly a revolution whose outbreak could be blamed upon their activities. It usually was the other way round: revolution broke out and liberated, as it were, the professional revolutionists from wherever they happened to be—from jail, or from the coffee house, or from the library. Not even Lenin’s party of professional revolutionists would ever have been able to “make” a revolution; the best they could do was to be around, or to hurry home, at the right moment, that is, at the moment of collapse. Tocqueville’s observation in 1848, that the *1381 monarchy fell “before rather than beneath the blows of the victors, who were as astonished at their triumph as were the vanquished at their defeat,” has been verified over and over again.94     Nevertheless an investigation to determine whether a “clear and present danger” existed became legitimate. In Dennis v. United States,95 even the “clear and present danger” test was abandoned; the danger need not be “clear and present” but only prospective—“as speedily as circumstances would permit.”96 And so investigation seemed at once to have almost no limits. And that has been the main impact of the decisions.   In Uphaus v. Wyman,97 the Court held that New Hampshire could require the production of an organization’s summer camp guest list because its Executive Director “had participated in ‘Communist front’ activities” and had invited “‘not less than nineteen speakers ... to talk ... [to the group who] had either been members of the Communist Party or had connections or affiliations with it or with one or more of the organizations cited as subversive or Communist controlled in the United States Attorney General’s list.”’98 Thus the State’s “interest of self-preservation” was found to outweigh “individual rights in an associational privacy.”99 In Barenblatt v. United States,100 the Court sustained the conviction of a House Un-American Activities Committee witness who, during the course of an investigation of Communist activity in education, had refused to answer, on First Amendment grounds, whether he was then or had been a member of the Communist Party. The Court said Congress has “wide power to legislate in the field of Communist activity ... and to conduct appropriate investigations in aid thereof ....”101 It concluded “that the balance between the individual and the governmental interests here at stake must be struck in favor of the latter, and that therefore the provisions of the First Amendment have not been offended.”102   This balancing approach was reaffirmed in Wilkinson v. United States103 and Braden v. United States.104 Although the evidence in each case showed that the witnesses were called only because they had opposed the existence and activity of the House Un-American Activities Committee, clearly lawful political activity within the purview of the First Amendment, the answer was: “The subcommittee had reasonable ground to suppose that the petitioner was an active Communist Party member, and that as such he possessed *1382 information that would substantially aid it in its legislative investigation. As the Barenblatt opinion makes clear, it is the nature of the Communist activity involved, whether the momentary conduct is legitimate or illegitimate politically, that establishes the Government’s over-balancing interest.”105   Watkins v. United States106 seems truer to our constitutional theory. There the Court examined closely the authority of the Committee, excluded questions whose pertinency was not clear, held the Bill of Rights to be applicable to investigations, said that the Congress was not “a law enforcement or trial agency,” and added: These are functions of the executive and judicial departments of government. No inquiry is an end in itself; it must be related to, and in furtherance of, a legitimate task of the Congress. Investigations conducted solely for the personal aggrandizement of the investigators or to “punish” those investigated are indefensible.107     There is eminent historical authority for that view. In 1794 the Whiskey Rebellion took place in western Pennsylvania—a rebellion against a heavy tax on whiskey, the farmer’s main cash crop. The rebellion was suppressed and a Resolution was introduced in the House criticizing the societies or groups behind the rebellion but not naming them. The Resolution read: As part of this subject, we cannot withhold our reprobation of the self-created societies, which have risen up in some parts of the Union, misrepresenting the conduct of the Government, and disturbing the operation of the laws, and which, by deceiving and inflaming the ignorant and the weak, may naturally be supposed to have stimulated and urged the insurrection.108     James Madison, creator of the Bill of Rights, spoke against the Resolution, and it was defeated. What Madison said has a modern ring: Opinions are not the objects of legislation. You animadvert on the abuse of reserved rights: how far’, will this go? It may extend to the liberty of speech, and of the press. It is in vain to say that this indiscriminate censure is no punishment. If it falls on classes, or individuals, it will be a severe punishment. ... Murder, or treason, cannot be noticed by the Legislature. Is not this proposition, if voted, a vote of attainder? To consider a principle, we must try its nature, and see how far it will go: in the present case, he considered the effects of the principle contended for would be pernicious. If we advert to the nature of Republican Government, we shall find that the censorial power is in the people over the Government, and not in the Government over the people.109     *1383 Irving Brant had this to say about that episode: First, a resolution whose targets were identified only as “self-created societies” was stamped as a bill of attainder—punishment without a judicial trial—by the man who is known as the father of the Constitution and author of the Bill of Rights. Secondly, Madison applied this prohibition to a resolution of one legislative house, acting by itself. What cannot be done by law—that is, what Congress is forbidden to do by the Constitution—he declared, one house cannot do. If that is true, can a committee of the house do what the house is forbidden to do, what Congress is forbidden to do?110     Where government is the Big Brother, privacy gives way to surveillance, and the Thought Police, to use Orwell’s phrase, take over. But our commitment is otherwise. By the First Amendment we have staked our security on freedom to promote a multiplicity of ideas, to associate at will with kindred spirits, and to defy governmental intrusion into those precincts.   The right of association which the First Amendment protects serves an important national cause. The idea was eloquently expressed by de Tocqueville whose dicta end this lecture as well as start it: An association for political, commercial, or manufacturing purposes, or even for those of science and literature, is a powerful and enlightened member of the community, which cannot be disposed of at pleasure or oppressed without remonstrance, and which, by defending its own rights against the encroachments of the government, saves the common liberties of the country.111      