+(,121/,1(
Citation: 85 Cent. L.J. 206 1917

Content downloaded/printed from
HeinOnline (http://heinonline.org)
Wed Jun 24 23:22:08 2015
-- Your use of this HeinOnline PDF indicates your acceptance
of HeinOnline's Terms and Conditions of the license
agreement available at http://heinonline.org/HOL/License
-- The search text of this PDF is generated from
uncorrected OCR text.

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL
to plead normal conditions as is one injured
as was the plaintiff in the instant case. This

results from the fact that judicial cognizance
may differ in the two kinds of occurrences.

WAR POWERS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION.'
In the unusual circumstances of war
it is natural that there should be
some confusion with respect to the
constitutional warrant for extraordinary
action taken or contemplated. Some altogether misconceive the Constitution.
Others vaguely fear that we are serving temporary exigency at the expense of
our fundamental law, and that we are thus
breeding a lawless, Constitution-ignoring
spirit which is a serious menace to our future. Others seek to raise doubts of power
in order to embarrass the prosecution of the
war. And there seems to be still others
who in their zeal impatiently and without
thought put the Constitution aside as having
no relation to these times.

War Powers Generally.-While we are
at war, we are not in revolution. \We are
making war as a nation organized under the
Constitution, from which the established national authorities derive all their powers
either in war or in peace. The Constitution
is as effective today as it ever was and the
oath to support it is just as binding. But
the framers of the Constitution did not contrive an imposing spectacle of impotency.
One of the objects of "a more perfect
union" was to "provide for the common dedefense." A nation which could not would
be powerless to secure the "blessings of
liberty to ourselves and our posterity." Self
preservation is the first law of national life
and the Constitution itself provides the necessary powers in order to defend and preserve the United States. Otherwise, as Mr.
-Justice Story said, "the country would be in
danger of losing both its liberty and its sovereignty from its dread of investing the

No. 12
No. 12

public councils with the power of defending
it. It would be more willing to submit to
foreign conquest than to domestic rule."
The war powers- under the Constitution
are carefully distributed. To Congress is
given the power "to declare war." The proposal to add "to make peace". found no
favor, as this was deemed to belong to the
treaty-making power vested in the President and the Senate. To the President was
given the direction of war as the commander in chief of the army and navy. It
was not in the contemplation of the Constitution that the command of forces and the
conduct of campaigns should be in charge
of a council or that as to this there should
be a division of authority or responsibility.
The prosecution of war demands in the
highest degree the promptness, directness
and unity of action in military operations
which alone can proceed from the execu-

tive. This exclusive power to command the
army and navy and thus direct and control
campaigns exhibits not autocracy but deinocracy fighting effectively through its
chosen instruments and in accordance with
the established organic law.
While the President is commander in
chief, in the Congress resides the authority
"to raise and support armies" and "to provide and maintain a navy," and to make
rules for the "government and regulation of
the land and naval forces;" and as a safeguard against military domination the
power to raise and support armies is qualified by the provision that "no appropriation
of money to that use shall be for a longer
term than two years," otherwise the power
is unlimited. The Congress is to prescribe
the military organization and provide the
equipment, afford maintenance, and for
these purposes appropriate such amounts of
money as it think necessary.
Validity of the Conscriptio'n Act.-Upon
every citizen lies the duty of aiding in the
common defense. In exercising its Constitutional power to raise armies, the Congress
may 'enforce this duty. The Congress
may call anyone to service who is able to

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

VOL,. 85
VOL. 85

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

serve. The question who may be called or
in what order is simply one for the judgment of the national legislature. The power
vested in Congress is not to raise armies
simply by calling for volunteers, but to
raise armies by whatever method Congress
deems best and hence be deemed to embrace
conscription. To the framers of the Constitution, the draft was a familiar mode of
raising armies, as it has been resorted to
by the colonies to fill up their quota in the
revolutionary war. It is true that the proposal in 1814 of Monroe as Secretary of
War to resort to conscription was vigorously opposed as unconstitutional. But the
draft was put in force both by the Union
and by the Confederacy during the Civil
War and its validity was sustained by the
courts in both North and South. "The
power of coercing the citizen," said Juldge
Robertson of Virginia in Burrough v. Peyton,1 "to render military service is indeed
a transcendent power in the hands of. any
government; but so far from being inconsistent with liberty it is essential to its preservation."
Permit me to quote upon the question the
opinion prepared (although not published)
by President Lincoln, which sets forth admirably the ground for sustaining the power
of Congress to pass a conscription act.
"In this case, those who desire the rebellion to succeed, and others who seek reward
in a different way, are very active in accommodating us with this class of arguments. They tell us the law is unconstitutional. It is the first instance, I believe,
in which the power of Congress to do a
thing has ever been questioned in a case
when the power is given by the Constitution in express terms. Whether a power
can be implied when it is not expressed has
often been the subject of controversy; but
this is the case in which the degree of
effrontery has been ventured on of denying
a power which is plainly and distinctly
written down in the 'Constitution. The
Constitution declares that 'the Congress
shall have power -** * to raise and support
armies; but no appropriation of money to
(1)

16 Gratt. 470 (1864).

that use shall be for a longer term than
two years.' The whole scope of the conscription act is 'to raise and support
armies.' There is nothing else in it. * * *
Do you admit that the power is given to
raise and support armies, and yet insist
that by this act Congress has not exercised
the power in a constitutional mode? Has
not done the thing in the right way? Who
is to judge of this? The Constitution gives
Congress the power but it does not prescribe the mode or expressly declare who
shall prescribe it. In such case Congress
must prescribe the mode, or relinquish the
power. There is no alternative. * * * *
The power is given fully, completely, unconditionally. It is not a power to raise
armies if state authorities consent; nor if
the men to compose the armies are entirely
willing; but it is a power to raise and support armies given to Congress by the Constitution and Without any 'if.' "
These are the words of Lincoln, penned
in the midst of the Civil War in which conscription was enforced and his reasoning is
conclusive. And while the question was not
presented to the United States Supreme
Court, the power of Congress was explicitly
recognized in Tarbele's case," and in later
opinions.
The constitutional authority thus vested
in Congress is not limited by any qualification arising from religious beliefs or conscientious objections. These are matters
not affecting power, but policy. As Mr. Justice Harlan said, in delivering the opiti{on
of the Supreme Court in Jacobson v. Massachusetts,' one "may be compelled by force
if need be, against his will and without regard to his personal wishes or his pecuniary
interests or even his religious or political
convictions, to take his place in the ranks
of the army of his country and risk the
chance of being shot down in its defense."
It is, however, in my judgment, a sound
policy on the part of Congress to provide
for the discharge from the draft of conscientious objectors. Nothing, I believe is
gained for the country by overriding the
claims of conscience in such cases; but it
(2)
(3)

13 Wall, p. 407.
197 U. S., p. 29.

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL
is obviously necessary that there should be
such definitions arrd restrictions as will prevent imposture and evasion by those who
have as little conscience as they have stomach for war.
It is contended in some quarters that this
power, which undoubtedly Congress had,
has been restricted or abolished by the thirtenth amendment, which provides that "neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the
party shall have been duly convicted shall
exist vithin the United States or any place
subject to their jurisdiction." It has been
-said by the United, States Supreme Court
that the plain intention -"was to abolish
slavery of whatever name and form and all
its badges and incidents; to render impossible any state of bondage; to make labor
free by prohibiting that control by which
the personal service of -one man is disposed .of or coerced for another's benefit,
which is the essence of involuntary servitude. It hits not only slavery but peonage."
But the language of the amendment was not
new. It reproduced the historic words of
the Ordinance orf1787 for the government
of the. Northwest Territory, and its terms,
construed in the light of its history and
plain purpose; afford no basis whatever for
the conclusion that it interfered in the
slightest degree with the power of Congress
to rise and support armies.
In the case of Robertson v. Bald win,4 it

was argued that the Thirteenth Amendment invalidated certain provisions of the
Revised Statutes authorizing Justices of the
Peace to issue warrants for deserting seamen. In denying the claim, the court said:
"It is clear, however, that the amendment was not intended to introduce any
novel doctrine with respect to certain descriptions of service which have always
been treated as exception, such as military
and naval enlistments." The soldier drafted
under Act of Congress is performing the
duty which he owes of aiding in the coin(4)

165 U. S. 275.

No. 12
No. 12

lon defense and the constitutional amend-

ment contemplates no escape from the duty
to defend and preserve the United States.
Power Over the Militia.-The power "to
raise and support armies" should not be
confused with the power given to Congress
"to provide for calling forth the militia to
execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions;" and "to
provide for organizing, arming and disciplining the militia, and for governing such
part of them as may be employed in the
service of the United States, reserving to
the states respectively the appaintment of
the offiicers and the authority of training the
militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress." The President is
Commander in Chief not alone of the "army
and.navy of the United States," but also
"of the militia of the several states, when
called into the actual service of the United
States." The militia within the meaning
of these provisions of the Constitution, is
distinct from the army of the United'States.
"Remember always," said Daniel Webster,
"that the great principle of the Constitution
on that subject is that the militia is the militia of the states and not of the general Government, and being thus the militia of the
states there is no part of the Constitution
worded with greater care and with a more
scrupulous jealousy, than that which grants
and limits the power of Congress over it."
In order to execute the laws of the
Union, to suppress insurrection and to repel
invasions, it would be necessary to employ
regular troops or to employ the militia.
And the power given to Congress with respect to the militia was manifestly to make
a large standing arm), unnecessary. But
as the service of the organized militia can
only be required by the national Government for the limited purpose specified in the
Constitution it follows (as AttorneyGeneral Wickersham advised President
Taft) that the organized militia, as such,
cannot be employed for offensive warfare
outside the limits of the United States.

VOL. 85
VOL. 85

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

This, however, is apart'from the power
of Congress to raise and support a Federal army. Congress may be content with
a small standing army in ordinary times,
but Congress may create and equip such
army as it pleases, subject to the qualification with respect to appropriations. It can
equip an army in preparation for war, and
of course it may furnish whatever army is
required for the prosecution of war. The
organization and service of an army raised
by Congress are not subject to the limitations governing its control of the militia.
The power to use an army is co-extensive
with the power to make war; and the army
may be used wherever war is carried on,
here or elsewhere. There is no limitation
upon the authority of Congress to create
an army and it is for the President as Commander in Chief to direct the campaigns of
that army wherever he may think they
should be carried on. As Chief Justice
Taney, speaking for the Supreme Court in
Fleming v. Page,' said: "As Commander
in Chief, he is authorized to direct the
movements of the naval and military forces
placed by law at his command, and to employ them in the manner he may deem most
effectual to harass and conquer and subdue
the enemy. He may invade the hostile
country and subject it to the sovereignty
and authority bf the United States."
We employed our arms in Canada in the
War of 1812; our troops were again sent to
foreign soil in the Mexican War and in the
war with Spain, and more recently have
been employed in China and Mexico. There
is no doubt of the constitutional authority
to employ our forces on the battlefields of
Europe in the war that we are now waging
for the safety of the United States .and to
conquer an enduring peace that the liberties
of free peoples throughout the world may
forever be secured from the aggressions of
unscrupulous military power.
Doctrine of Implied Powers.-The power
to wage war is power to wage war success(5)

9 -ow, p. C15.

f ully. The framers of the Constitution
were under no illusion as to war. They had
emerged from a long war, which had taught
them the weakness of a mere confederation,
and they had no hope that they could hold
what they had won save as they established
a union which could fight with the strength
of one people, under one government intrusted with the common defense. In
equipping the national Government with the
needed authority in war, they tolerated no
limitations inconsistent with that object, as
they realized that the very existence of the
nation might be at stake and that every resource of the people must be at command.
Said Madison in the Federalist: "Security
against foreign danger is one of the primitive objects of civil authority. It is an
avowed and essential object of the American Union. The powers requisite for attaining it must be effectually confided to
the Federal councils." And Hamilton said:
"The idea of restraining the legislative authority, in the means of providing for the
national defense, is one of those refinements
which owe their origin to a zeal for liberty
more ardent than enlightened." He again
emphasized the same ideas in these words:
"The circumstances that endanger the
safety of nations are infinite, and for this
reason no constitutional shackles can wisely
be imposed on the power to which the care
of it is committed. This power ought to be
co-exclusive with all the possible combinations of such circumstances; and ought to
be under the direction of the same councils
which are appointed to preside over the
common defense."
It was in this view that plenary power
was given to Congress to wage war and
raise armies. It is also in the light of thls
conception of national exigencies that we
must read subdivision 18 of section 8 of
article 1 of the Constitution (following the
enumeration of powers), which gives Congress the authority "to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the foregoing powers, and all
other powers vested by the Constitution in

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

No. 12
No. 12

the Government of the United States or in
any department or office thereof.

and even destroy their own to keep it from
the enemy."
It is also to be observed that the power
It must also be remembered that it is of
exercised by the President in time of war
the essence of national power Where it exis greatly augmented, outside of his funcists, it dominates. There is no room in our
tions as Commander in Chief, through legscheme of government for the assertion of
increasing his adminishostility to the exercise of Federal power. islation of Congress
trative authority. War defnands the highThe power of the national Government to
est degree of efficient organization and Concarry on war is explicit and supreme, and
gress in the nature of things cannot prethe authority thus resides in Congress inscribe many important' details as it legisthe event of war to effect whatever legislalates for the purpose of meeting the exition is necessary to prosecute the war with
vigor and success, and this power is to be gencies of war. Never is adaptation of legislation to practical ends so urgently reexercised without impairment of the auquired, and hence Congress naturally in
thorty committed to the President as Comvery large measure confers upon the Presimander in Chief to direct military operadent the authority to ascertain and detertions.
mine various states of fact to which legisWar Powers of the President.-Each of lative measures are addressed.
these powers, that of Congress and of the
President, is the subject of a distinct grant,
each is the complement of the other, and
together they furnish the adequate equipment of authority for war. There is no
more impressive spectacle than that of the
President of the republic in time of war
when in'
addition to the other great powers
of his office he acts in supreme command
of the armed forces of the nation and conducts its military campaigns. It was under
this power that President Lincoln defended
the Proclamation of Emancipation. It related to those held as slaves in the states in
rebellion, and he regarded it as it recited,
as a necessary act of war within his authority as commander in chief. He thus
expressed this point of view: "You say it
is unconstitutional. I think differently. I
think the Constitution invests its Commander in Chief with the law of war in time
of war. The most that can be said-is it so
much-is that slaves are property. Is
there-has ,there ever been-any question
that by law of war, property, both of enemies and friends, may be taken when
needed? And is it not needed whenever
taking it helps us, or hurts the enemy?
Armies, the world over, destroy the
enemies' prdperty, when they cannot use it;

The Legislature cannot delegate its power
to make a law, but it can make a law to
delegate a power to determine sonle fact or
state of things upon whch the law makes or
intends to make, its own action depend. To
deny this would be to stop the wheels of
Government. There are many things upon
which wise and useful legislation must depend, which cannot be known to the lawmaking power, and must, therefore, be a
subject of inquiry and determination outside of the halls of legislation. Congress
cannot be permitted to abandon to others
its proper legislative functions ; but in time
of war when legislation must be adapted to
many situations of the utmost complexity,
which must be dealt with effectively and
properly, there is special need for flexibility
and for every resource of practicability; and
of course, whether the limits of permissible
delegation are in any case overstepped,
always remains a judicial question. We
thus not only find these great war powers
conferred upon the Congress and the President. respectively, but also a vast increase
of administrative authority through legislative action springing from the necessities of
war.
Constitutional Limitations on War Powers.-The question remains: Vhat may be

\VOL. 85

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

deemed to be the force and effect in time of
war of the restrictive provisions contained
in the Constitution with respect to the exerci'se of Federal authority? It is manifest, at once that the great organs of the
national government retain and perform
their functions as the Constitution prescribes. Senators and Representatives are
qualified and chosen as provided in the Constitution and the legislative power vested in
Congress must be exercised in the required
manner. The President is still the constitutional executive, elected in the manner
provided and subject to the restraints imposed upon his office.. The judicial power
of the United States continues to be vested
in one Supreme Court and such inferior
courts as Congress has ordained.
Again, apart from the provisions fixing
the framework of the government, there
are limitations whieh by reason of their
express terms or by necessary implication
nust be regarded as applicable as well in
war as in peace. Thus one of the expressed
objects of the power granted to Congress
"to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and
excises," is to "provide for the common defense," and it cannot be doubted that taxes
laid for this purpose, that is, to support the
army and navy and to provide the means
for military operations, must be laid subject
to the constitutional restrictions. That is,
all duties, imposts and excises must be uniform throughout the United States, and
direct taxes must be apportioned among
the states according to population. And
by the sixteenth amendment, providing
may be laid
that income derived,
without apportionment among the states,
these taxes fall into the great class of excise duties and imposts, and are alike subject to the rule requiring geographical uniformity, a requirement operative in war as
well as in peace.
Personal Rights and War Powers.-But
what shall be said oi the efficacy in time of
war of the-great guarantees of personal and
property rights? It would be impossible on
this occasicn to 'discuss comprehensively

this important subject, or even to refer to
all these guarantees, but we may briefly
touch upon the question in its relation to
the fifth and sixth amendments, viz.:
"No person shall be held to answer for
a capital or otherwise infamous crime unless upon a presentment or indictment of
a grand jury, except in cases arising in the
land or naval forces, or in the militia, when
in actual service in time of war or public
danger; nor shall an3 person be subject for
the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy
of life or limb ; nor shall he be compelled in
any criminal case to be a witness against
himself, nor be deprived of life, libert or
property without due process of law; nor
shall private property be taken for public
use without just compensation.
"In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to speedy and
public trial by an impartial jury of the state
and district wherein the crime shall have
been committed, which district shall have
been previously ascertained by law, and to
be informed of the nature and cause of
the accusations; to be confronted with the
witnesses against him; to have compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor,
and to have the.assistance of counsel for
his defense."
Clearly these amendments, normally and
perfectly adapted to conditions of peace, do
not have the same complete and universal
application in time of war. Thus the fifth
arendment normally gives its protection to.
"any person." But, in war, this nmust yield
to the undoubted national power to capture
find confiscate the property of enemies.
This was distinctly ruled by the Supreme
Court in Miller v. U. S.,1 a proceeding
brought under the confiscation acts of 1861
and 1862 to confiscate shares of stock
owned by Miller, a Virginian, in a Michigan corporation. The Court said:
"If the act of 1861 and the fifth, sixth
and seventh sections of the act of July 17,
1862, Were municipal regulations only, there
would be force to the objection that Congress has disregarded the restrictions of
the fifth and sixth amendment of the Constitution

*

*

*

If on the contrary they

are an exercise of the war powers of the
(6)

11 Wall, 268.

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

No. 12

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL
Government, it is clear they are not affected
by the restrictions imposed by the fifth and
sixth amendments. This we understand to
have been conceded in the argument. The
question, therefore, is whether the action
of Congress was a legitimate exercise of
the war power. The Constitution confers
upon Congress, expressly, power to declare war, grant letters of marque and
reprisal and make rules respecting captures
on land and water. Upon the exercise of
these powers no restrictions are imposed.
Of course, the power to declare war involves the power to prosecute it by all
means and in any manner in which war
mayr be legitimately prosecuted. It therefore includes the right to seize and confiscate all property of an enemy and to dispose of it at the will of the captor. This
is, and always has been, an undoubted belligerent right."
Aga-in, in the place where actual military
operations are being conducted, the ordinary rights of citizens must yield to paramount military necessity. This was conceded in Milligan's case," where it was said
in the prevailing opinion:
"If, in foreign invasion or civil wvar, the
courts are actually closed, and it is impossible to administer criminal justice according to law, then, on the theater of actual
military operations, where war really prevails, there is a necessity to furnish a substitute for the civil authority, thus overthrown, to preserve the safety of the army
and society and as no power is left but
the military, it is allowed to govern by martial rule until the laws can have their free
course."
The difficult question, however, is presented with respect to the rights of citizens
and others not enemies, in places which are
outside the actual theater of war. It was
upon the question of the power of Congress to provide for the trial of citizens by
military commission in such places that the
Justices sharply divided in the noted case
of Milligan. He was a citizen of Indiana
who had been tried by a military commission at Indianapolis on a charge of aiding
the enemy and conspiring against the Gov(7)

4 Wall, p. 127.

No.1~
ernment, and had been sentenced to be
hung. He was not a resident of one of
the rebellious states, nor a prisoner of war,
and he had not been in the military or naval
service. The Court was unanimous in the
opinion that under the terms of the act of
Congress. creating the commission it had
no jurisdiction. But the majority of the
Court went further and declared that Congress was without power to provide for
the trial of citizens by military commission
save in the locality of actual war, and when
there was not access to the courts. Maintaining with eloquent emphasis the guarantees of freedom contained in the fifth and
sixth amendments, the majority of the Court
asserted that "martial law cannot arise
from a threatened invasion. The necessity
must be actual and present; the invasion
real, such as effectually closes the courts
*
and deposes the civil administration. *
Martial rule can never exist where the
courts are open and in the proper and unobstructed exercise of their jurisdiction. It
is also confined to the locality of the actual
war." The minority of four Justices, led
by Chief Justice Chase, while agreeing that
there was no jurisdiction in Milligan's case
under the act of Congress, strongly insisted that Congress in time of war had the
power to provide for the punishment of
citizens charged with conspiracy against the
United States by military tribunals, if it
was deemed necessary for the public safety.
Deducing this view from the war powers
conferred by the Constitution, the Chief
Justice said:
"WAhere peace exists the laws of peace
must prevail. What we do maintain is
that when the nation is involved in war and
some portions of the country are invaded
and all are exposed to invasion, it is within
the power of Congress to determine to what
states or districts such great aid imminent
public danger exists as justifies the authorization of military tribunals for the trial
of crimes and offenses against the discipline or security of the army or against
the public safety. *- * * The fact that
the Federal courts were open was regarded
by Congress as a sufficient reason for not

VOL. 85

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAJJ
VoL. 85
exercising the power; but that fact could take place where the conflict rages and
not deprive Congress of the right to exer- those takings, although for military purcise it. These courts might be open and poses, which are delibertte appropriations
undisturbed in the execution of their functions and yet wholly incompetent to avoid for which compensation must be made. As
threatened danger or to punish with ade- was said by the Supreme Court in U. S. v.
quate promptitude and certainty the guilty Russell,s private property, the Constitution
conspirators. *
*
In times of rebelprovides, "shall not be taken for publia use
lion and civil war it may often happen,
without just compensation. * * * Exindeed, that Judges and Marshals will be
in active sympathy with the rebels and traordinary and unforeseen occasions arise,
beyond all doubt, in cases of extreme necescourts their most efficient allies. * *
It was for Congress to determine the ques- sity in time of war or of immediate ard
tion of expediency."
impending public danger in which private
Prof. Willoughby, in a careful review of property may be impressed into the public
the Milligan case, regards the doctrine of service, or may be seized or appropriated
the majority as essentially sound, that the to the public use, or may even be destroyed
necessity justifying martial law may not be without the consent .of the owner. * * I
created by legislative fiat. But he suggests Where such an extraordinary and unforethat the majority went too far in the ab- seen emergency occurs in the public servsolute declaration that martial law cannot ice in time of war no doubt is entertained
arise from "a threatened invasion," and that that the power of the Government is .ample
the mere fact that the courts are open, re- to supply for the moment the 'public wants
gardless of all other conditions is a con- in thait way to the extent of immediate
clusive test. "The better doctrine," says public exigency, but the public danger must
Willoughby, "is not for the courts to at- be immediate, imminent and the emergency
tempt to determine in advance with respect in the public service must be extreme and
to any one element what does, what does imperative and such as will not admit of
not, create a necessity for martial law, but delay or a resort to any other source of
as in all other cases of the exercise of offi- supply. * -* * Such a justification may
cial authority, to test the legality 'of an act be shown and then the rule is well settled that the officer taking private property
by its special circumstances."
for such a purpose, if the emergency is
Certainly the test should not be a mere
fully proved, is not a trespasser, and that
physical one, nor should substance be sacthe Government is bound to make full comrificed to form. The majority recognized
"a necessity to furnish a substitute for the pensation to the owner."
Distinct from such requisitions from incivil authority" when overthrown, in order
dividuals
is the necessary regulation of the
"to preserve the safety of the "armv and
use
*of
property
to secure the successful
society." If this necessity actually exists
prosecution
of
the
war. We are witnessing
it cannot be doubted that the power of the
a
new
phase
of
the
exercise of war powers.
nation is adequate to meet it, but the rights
But
the applicable principle to determine
of the citizen may not be impaired 1), an
the
validity
of such action is not new. Even
arbitrary legislative declaration. Outside
in
times
of
peace we are familiar with the
the actual theater of war, and if, in a true
principle
of
regulation which extends to
sense, the administration of justice remains
callings
"affected
with a public interest."
unobstructed the rights of the citizens to
The
Supreme
Court,
after reviewing the
normal judicial procedure is sure.
decisions, recently said: "They demonProperty Rights and War Powers.-Furstrate that a business, by circumstances and
ther, with respect to the citizen's right of
its nature, may rise from private to be a
property, a distinction may be taken between the unavoidable deprivations which
(S)
1.3 lVall, p, 263.

No. 12

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL

No. 12

CENTRAL LAW JOURNAL
public concern, and be subject, in consequence, to governmental regulation. And
they demonstrate "-- * * that the attempts made to place the right of public
regulation in cases where it has been exerted of which we have given examples,
upon the ground of special privilege conferred by the public on these affected, cannot be supported. The underlying principle is that business of certain kinds hold
such a peculiar relation to the public interest that there is super-induced upon it the
right of puiqlic regulation."
The extraordinary circumstances of war
may bring particular business and enterprises clearly into the category of those
which are affected with a public interest
and which demand immediate and thoroughgoing public regulation. The production and distribution of foodstuffs, articles
of prime necessity, those which have di-.
rect relation to military efficiency, those
which are absolutely -required for the support of the people during the stress of conflict, are plainly of this sort. Reasonable
regulations to safeguard the resources upon
which we depend for military success must
be regarded as being within the powers
confided to Congress to enable it to prosecute a successful war.
In the words of the Supreme Court:
"It is well settled that the Constitution
is iot self-destructive. In other words,.
that the power which it confers on the one
hand it does not immediately take away on
the other."' 0 This was said in relation to
the taxing power. Having been granted in
express terms, the Court held it had not
been taken away by the due process clause
of the fifth amendment. As the Suprele
Court put it in another case: "The Constitution does not conflict with itself by conferring upon the one hand a taxing power
and taking the same power away on the
other bv
the limitations of the due process
'

clause.
(9)

1

German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Iansas,

233 U. S., p. 411.

(10)

282.
(11)

Billings v. United States, 232 U. S., p.
240 U. S., p. 24.

Similarly, it may be said that the power
has been expressly given to Congress to
prosecute war, and to pass all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
that power into execution. That power explicitly conferred and essential to the safety
of the nation is not destroyed or impaired
by any later provision of the Constitution
or by any one of the amendments. These
may be construed so as to avoid making
the Constitution self-destructive, so as to
preserve the rights of the citizen from uinwarrantable attack, while assuring beyond
all hazard the common defense and the
perpetuity of our liberties.
CIIARLES

E.

-IUcIT-ES.

New York, N. Y.

INSURANCE-INDEMNITY
MOST

v.

MASSACHUSETTS
INS, CO. et al.

POLICY.
BONDING

&

Springfield Court of Appeals. Missouri. June
16, 1917. Rehearing Denied July 24, 1917.
196 S. W. 1064.
By assuming the defense of an employe's
personal injury action against his employer and

failing to give appeal bond on account of the
employer's insolvency which was its custom in
such cases, the insurer did not waive provisions

of its "no action" clause, providing that no action shall lie against the-insurer to recover for
loss or expenses under such liability policy, unless brought by the insured for loss or expenses

incurred and paid
trial of the issue.

in

money

by insured after

COX, P. J. The husband of Margaret Most
was killed by accident while in the employ of
the Goebel Construction Company, at a time
when there was in force an employers' liability
policy issued by the Massachusetts Bonding &
Insurance Company to the Goebel Construction
Company. Appellant sued the Goebel Construction Company and recovered judgment, and,
failing to collect this judgment on account of
the insolvency of the Goebel Construction Company, brought this suit seeking to hold the
insurance company liable to her, and asking
that judgment be rendered in her favor
against the insurance company for the amount
due on her judgment against the Goebel Con-

