World Affairs Institute
THE PATHWAY OF PEACE
Author(s): CHARLES E. HUGHES
Source: Advocate of Peace through Justice, Vol. 85, No. 9/10 (September-October, 1923), pp. 337
-342
Published by: World Affairs Institute
Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/20660388
Accessed: 25-06-2015 03:16 UTC

Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use, available at http://www.jstor.org/page/
info/about/policies/terms.jsp
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content
in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and facilitate new forms of scholarship.
For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.

World Affairs Institute is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to Advocate of Peace through
Justice.

http://www.jstor.org

This content downloaded from 128.103.149.52 on Thu, 25 Jun 2015 03:16:36 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

1923 ADVOCATE OF PEACE 337
In
stand, but addressed his audiences on his knees.
April, 1841, he left New York for his home in Minot.
He reached Portsmouth the 9th of that month. As he
retired his wife said, "Now let us kneel down and thank
God that you are safe returned."
They knelt and
prayed. On lying down he felt the approach of death,
but before help could be called he passed beyond. He
lies buried in Portsmouth, and on his tomb appears :
William

Ladd

duction

by

International
An

are

the peacemakers,

for

by

the American

Peace

Brown

they

Carnegie

pronounced

at Minot,

Maine,

of July, 1814, byWilliam Ladd.

of Bakerstown,
by William
of Maine
Historical

Annals

THE

PATHWAY
Secretary

Delivered

before

Endowment
on

Ladd,

Collections

series).

shall

Society

Scott.

the

2
page

(first
111.

E. HUGHES

of the United

Canadian

Vol.

Society,

day

OF PEACE

CHARLES

of State

the fourth

Bar

States

Association

at Mon

treal, September 4, 1923, and published here with

author's

for

1916.

BY HONORABLE

be called the children of God
Erected

Peace,

oration

Born May 10, 1778
Died April 9, 1841
Blessed

James

the

consent.

Such were the activities ofWilliam Ladd, the Apostle
said Sir Henry Maine, "appears to be as
?TTtar/'
of Peace, and during the years which he gave so much
VV
old as mankind, but peace is a modern inven
to the cause of peace he also found time to carry on his
tion." It is hardly that; it would seem to be an oc
large farm at Minot. He improved the general conduct
casional experience, rather than an achievement.
To
of agriculture in the neighborhood ; he planted orchards ;
one who reviews the history of strife from "the univer
he moved among his neighbors, respected and much
sal belligerency of primitive mankind," peace appears
liked. He contributed to every good cause. He became
merely as the lull between inevitable storms always
an advocate of temperance. He lectured to his fellow
gathering in some quarter with the fateful recurrence
townsmen on that subject. What he preached he prac
of the operations of nature. Nineteen centuries of Chris
ticed.
tian faith, with its evangel of peace on earth and good
No account ofWilliam Ladd would be complete with
will to men, with its sweet reasonableness and constant
out mention of the rugged man who was his pastor and
appeals through myriad activities to man's
highest
friend, Elijah Jones, who became pastor of the church
have erected no effective barrier to war. It main
hopes,
more
at Minot in 1823, and there continued for
than
tains hospitals, it cares for the wounded and soothes
fifty years. To this man must be attributed the Chris
the dying; it shines resplendent in countless lives of
tian, if that term may be used, touch of all of William
supreme self-sacrifice; but it leaves untouched the fields
Ladd's writings, for it must have been noted from the of
carnage and unimpaired the justification of noble
foregoing that William Ladd's conception of peace was
and generous spirits in the use of th? most ruthless in
of a religious origin. This is most clearly seen in his
strumentalities of destruction. The economic satisfac
treatment of the Lovejoy episode. The idea of a Chris
tions proffered by an advancing civilization and de
tian peace permeates his great essay on a congress of
pendent upon peace, the enticements of soft living, the
nations.
hopes of families, the tenderest attachments, are all
The homestead of William Ladd at Center Minot is futile to
oppose the summons to arms. The resources
now in the hands of strangers. The elegance of his
of science, all inventive skill, the long
discipline of the
mansion house is no more. The white church in which
of trade and industry, everything that can
organization
he worshiped yet graces the Minot hilltop, and near by, be
commanded in thought and action, in accumulated
in the churchyard, sleeps Elijah Jones; but the idea
stores and capacity of production, are under
pledge to
thatWilliam Ladd gave to the world in his great essay
the god of war.
yet lives and grows greater and more sublime as men of
We may gain something in our quest for peace if
our day seek a world peace under its benign and simple we
recognize at once that war is not an abnormality.
doctrine, and as it becomes more and more evident that
In the truest sense, it is not the mere
play of brute
the better ordering of the world lies in a congress of force. It is the
of the insistent human will,
expression
nations and a world court.
inflexible in its purpose.
The culture of civilization
Among Maine men who have a claim to fame, none
has strengthened, not enfeebled it. It is the old human
have a greater and sounder cause for respectful memory
spirit with the latest equipment. As Winston Churchill
than William Ladd of Minot, "The Apostle of Peace."
has said of the "valiant spirit of man in the late war":
"Son of the Stone Age, vanquisher of nature with all her
AUTHORITIES
trials and mosters, he met the awful and self-inflicted
* * *
The Apostle
of Peace.
Memoir
of William
Ladd,
by John
His
agony with new reserves of fortitude.
an
with
introduction
1872.
Elihu
nervous system was found in the twentieth
Hemenway,
by
Burritt,
century
William
the Apostle
of Peace,
Captain
Ladd,
by John
capable of enduring physical and moral stresses before
Witham
and
of
the
Maine
Collections
Penney.
Proceedings
which the simpler natures of primeval times would have
Historical
1899, second
Society,
April,
10, page
series, Vol.
collapsed. Again and again to the hideous bombard
113.
ment, again and again from the hospital to the front,
on a Congress
a
of Nations,
Prize
Essays
together with
again and again to the hungry submarines, he strode
Sixth Essay,
1840.
unflinching. And withal, as an individual, preserved
on a Congress
An Essay
of Nations
Ladd.
by William
through these torments the glories of a reasonable and
from the original
of 1840, with
an in tro
edition
Reprinted
It was with this equipment,
compassionate mind."

This content downloaded from 128.103.149.52 on Thu, 25 Jun 2015 03:16:36 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

ADVOCATE OF PEACE
spiritual as well as material, at a time when peace was
lavishly bestowing the choicest rewards of human effort,
that the nations that had most to lose plunged into the
most ruinous and horrible conflict known to history.
When we consider that the inability to maintain a
just peace attests the failure of civilization itself, we
may be less confident of the success of any artificial
contrivances to prevent war. We must recognize that
we are dealing with the very woof and warp of human
nature. The war to end war has left its curse of hate,
its lasting injuries, its breeding grounds of strife, and
to secure an abiding peace appears to be more difficult
than ever. There is no advantage in shutting our eyes
to the facts ; nor should we turn in disgust of panaceas
to the counsel of despair. The pathway of peace is the
longest and most beset with obstacles the human race
has to tread; the goal may be distant, but we must
press

on.

It is not surprising that many should be captivated
by the proposal, with its delusive simplicity and ade
quacy, for the outlawry of war. War should be made
a crime, and those who instigate it should be punished
as criminals. The suggestion, however futile in itself,
has at least the merit of bringing us to the core of the
problem. Even among its sponsors appear at once the
qualifications which reflect the old distinction, so elabo
rately argued by Grotius, between just and unjust wars.
"The grounds of war," said he, "are as numerous as
those of judicial actions. For where the power of law
found the justifiable
He
ceases, there war begins."
causes generally assigned for war to be three?defense,
indemnity, and punishment. War is self-help, and the
right to make war has been recognized as the corollary
of independence, the permitted means by which injured
nations protect their territory and maintain their rights.
International law leaves aggrieved States who can not
obtain redress for their wrongs by peaceful means to
exact it by force. If war is outlawed, other means of
redress of injuries must be provided. Moreover, few,
if any, intend to outlaw self-defense, a right still ac
corded to individuals under all systems of law. To
meet this difficulty, the usual formula is limited to wars
of aggression.
But justification for war, as recently
demonstrated, is ready at hand for those who desire to
make war, and there is rarely a case of admitted aggres
sion, or where on each side the cause is not believed to
be just by the peoples who support the war.
There is a further difficulty that lies deeper. There is
no lawgiver for independent States. There is no
legis
lature to impose its will by majority vote, no executive
to give effect even to accepted rules. The outlawry of
war necessarily implies a self-imposed restraint, and free
peoples, jealous of their national safety, of their free
dom of opportunity, of the rights and privileges they
deem essential to their well being, will not forego the
only sanction at their command in extreme exigencies.
The restraints they may be willing to place upon them
selves will always be subject to such conditions as will
leave them able to afford self-protection by force, and
in this freedom there is abundant room for strife sought
to be justified by deep-seated convictions of national
interests, by long-standing grievances, by the appre
hension of aggression to be forestalled. The outlawry
of war, by appropriate rule of law making war a crime,

September-October

requires the common accord needed to establish and
maintain a rule of international law, the common con
sent to abandon war ; and the
suggested remedy thus im
As
plies a state of mind in which no cure is needed.
the restrain is self-imposed, it will prove to be of avail
only while there is a will to peace.
It is this difficultywhich constantly suggests recourse
to force to maintain peace.
Peoples who would engage
in war, it is said, must be
compelled to be peaceful;
there should be an international force adequate to pre
vent aggression and to redress wrongs.
The analogy
of domestic peace is pressed ; the force of the State
that is, of all the people?maintains
the authority of the
law and compels public order. The
municipal
analogy
has held good in the case of great
empires and within
the range of their imperial power. The earliest
empires,
established through conquest and the greed of dominion,
doubtless diminished wars among the subject
peoples
while the imperial authority continued, and the cen
turies of the pax Romana were made
possible by the un
It is unfortunately true
challengeable sway of Eome.
that it is self-determination which makes for war and
places obstacles in the way of all plans for keeping the
peace. Thirty-five years ago the most distinguished of
publicists found some promise of peace in the alliance
of the three emperors and in the
consequent isolation
and agreement for peaceful
adjustment of a limited
group of questions which otherwise might lead to con
flict. But time has shown how
illusory are alliances of
of peace is
great powers so far as the maintenance
concerned.

In considering the use of international force to se
cure peace, we are again
brought to the fundamental
If the feasibility of such
necessity of common accord.
a force be conceded for the
purpose of maintaining
adjudications of legal right, this is only because such an
adjudication would proceed upon principles commonly
accepted, and thus forming part of international law,
and upon the common agreement to
respect the decision
of an impartial tribunal in the
application of such prin
ciples. This is a limited field where force is rarely
needed and where the sanctions of
public opinion and
the demands of national honor are
generally quite suffi
cient to bring about acquiescence
in judicial awards.
But in the field of
conflicting national policies, and
what are deemed to be essential interests, when the
smoldering fires of old grievances have been fanned
into a flame by a passionate sense of immediate
injury,
or the
imagination of peoples is dominated by appre
hension of present danger to national
safety, or by what
is believed to be an assault upon national
honor, what
force is to control the outbreak?
Great powers agree
ing among themselves may indeed hold small powers
in check. But who will hold
great powers in check
when great powers disagree?
The trust in force must
in truth be trust in common
agreement behind the
force. And we are thus brought back to the sentiment
of peoples, to the common accord which makes
peace
The application of force when there is dis
possible.
agreement means war, not peace; and then the basis
of confidence, if found at all, is
merely in the disparity
of arms.

All

contrivances for maintaining peace by economic
pressure, as well as by military force, depend upon the

This content downloaded from 128.103.149.52 on Thu, 25 Jun 2015 03:16:36 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

1923 ADVOCATE OF PEACE 339
sentiment which will apply the pressure and direct the
force when the test comes. Such arrangements are likely
to fail when they are most needed, because national in
terests are diverse and unanimity of action under stress
of crises involving conflicts of opinion is well-nigh im
possible. The independence and equality of States is
the postulate of international relations. There is no
path to peace except as the will of peoples may open it.
The way to peace is through agreement, not through
force. The question then is not of any ambitious gen
eral scheme to prevent war, but simply of the constant
effort,which is the highest task of statesmanship in re
lation to every possible cause of strife, to diminish
among peoples the disposition to resort to force, and
to find a just and reasonable basis for accord.
If the
energy, ability, and sagacity equal to that now devoted
to preparation for war could be concentrated upon such
efforts aided by the urgent demands of intelligent public
opinion, addressed not to impossibilities but to the re
moval or adjustment of actual differences, we should
make such approach to our goal.
Over against the arbitrament of war we put the reign
of law. But the reign of law is limited by the content
of the law and by the processes of its development.
International law consist of those principles and rules
of conduct which civilized States regard as obligatory
upon them, and hence are generally observed in their
relations with each other. They are deduced by reason
and exemplified by practice, and, resting on
general
consent, can be modifier or added to only by consent.
Lord Mansfield described the law of nations as "founded
upon justice, equity, convenience, the reason of the
in
thing, and confirmed by long usage."
Lacking
definite sanction other than public opinion, it is in con
stant danger of being supplanted by considerations of
expediency whenever the exigency is so severe, or the
immediate advantages so great, or opinion so divided,
as to warrant the risk. There was abundant illustration
of this in the recent war, which began in "repudiation
of every element of fundamental right upon which the
law of nations rests" and was prosecuted with but
slight
regard to any obligatory principle which was thought to
stand in the way of success. If we are to live in a
world of order and of peace the foundations of inter
national law must be secured, its postulates must be re
asserted, and there must be expert attention to its de
velopment in dealing with the unsettled questions of
a legal nature which have arisen in international inter
course.

It has been said that if the founders of international
law did not create a sanction, they did create a law
abiding sentiment. This is in truth themost important
sanction, and to-day there is need that this law-abiding
sentiment should be re-created and that the tendency,
increased by nine years of war and the confusion and
unrest following war, to reply on force should be checked.
It is not that the field of law is broad ; it is
necessarily
a narrow one,
limited, as has been said, to those principles
and rules of general application which have found
general acceptance. But the spirit which maintains the
law within that field, which recognizes its restraints
although self-imposed, which safeguards the independ
ence, the equality, and the proper jurisdiction and
privileges of the members of the family of nations and

assures the sanctity of international
engagements?this
of
upholding of correlative rights and obligations?is
vital importance not simply with respect to these rights
and obligations in themselves but in producing the will
to peace. However narrow may be the field in which
the principles of law obtain, there will be no peace in
the world if the spirit of men permits these principles
to be trampled upon as self-interest may prompt.
It is, therefore, most desirable that all discussion of
international relations should not revolve about ques
tions of policy and expediency, however important these
may be, but that along with this necessary discussion
there should be the determination to re-establish the law,
to quicken the sense of the
obligation of States under
the law. As soon as possible the codification of interna
tional law should be undertaken, not merely to give for
mal definiteness to accepted principles, but to heighten
the respect for these' postulates and rules by fresh dis
cussion and restatement. And with this enterprise,
attention should be given to the resolution of all the
manifold uncertainties and diversities of opinion as to
matters which properly belong within the domain of
law, and to the provision of new rules needed to meet
new situations.
It would be difficult to conceive a pro
cess requiring more deliberation and
For at
patience.
every step the general consent of nations must be had,
and at every step, except in the simplest matters, the
opposing policy and objections of some nation will be
encountered. The difficulty must be met by confer
ences which have the sole
object of promoting the codi
fication and development of law. It must be met by
the aroused and insistent purpose of the members of the
bar, who by their unremitting and organized endeavor
may produce among their peoples the profound con
viction that there will be no
continuing peace unless
conscience and a dominant sense of justice demand and
insure the supremacy of law.
As legal principles and rules are supported by gen
eral acceptance, we may look with confidence for the
general support of opinion in their application and
vindication through impartial tribunals. The
difficulty
here is not the acceptance of the theory of
judicial
settlement, but in establishing entire confidence in the
impartiality of tribunals and their freedom from politi
cal influence. It must also be recognized that
questions
arise which, although requiring for their solution the
application of principles of law or the interpretation of
treaties, touch so closely the vital interests or the pride
and honor of States that they are unwilling to allow
the settlement to pass into other hands. And beyond
all questions of law there lie themost difficult situations,
where there are no determining
principles, where na
tional policies and ambitions conflict, where nations
seek expansion and opportunities of trade by
spheres of
political and economic influence among weaker peoples,
where rivalries are embittered by mutual distrust and
ever-present fear, where intrigue is the busy servant of
the lust of power, where compelled adjustments have
left deep wounds and a passionate desire for a redress
of injuries inflicted by force and sought to be redressed
by force. As against these causes of strife, creating
the disposition to look for pretexts for the use of force,
efforts to maintain a permanent peace have thus far
proved to be futile. Plans for commissions of inquiry

This content downloaded from 128.103.149.52 on Thu, 25 Jun 2015 03:16:36 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

ADVOCATE OF PEACE
for periods of cooling off, for the use of good offices,
are all important and may be efficacious to a gratifying
extent. But these measures
deal with cases already
aggravated, and it may well be doubted whether in
avail. Great powers, well
grave crises they would
armed and having a vivid sense of opportunity, sup
ported by popular clamor for the vindication of national
interests, are disposed to seize what they believe to be
within their grasp. Resistance
by force means war.
Pear of opposing force may stay the hand, but this does
not mean peace?rather,
renewed preparation and a
waiting for the day. There is only one way to make
peace secure and that is the difficult but necessary
eifort to translate particular controversies into volun
this purpose, of a
tary reasonable agreements. To
concrete
than
rather
to
fanciful programs,
definite,
sort,
the intelligence of peoples should be devoted.
We have to take account of both the advantages and
of democratization.
It
is generally
disadvantages
thought that democracies are disposed to peace, but this
is yet to be demonstrated where there is deep feeling
and a national sense of injury. Great wars, involving
vast populations, can not be fought without public sup
port, but the most serious causes of war are precisely
those which carry popular appeal.
The peoples of the
warring nations were never so united as during the last
war, and this was equally true of both sides. A sense
of injury is easily created and confused with the sense
of justice. A despot may be as indisposed to war as
any people, and democracies never lack leaders to in
flame popular passion. While we should expect peoples
to be slow to war in minor exigencies, the test comes
when national sentiment is deeply aggrieved.
Apart from this, it is necessary to reckon with the
special difficulties inherent in the democratic organiza
tion of government with respect to the endeavor to
maintain peace by concluding international agreements
which end controversies closely affecting national in
terests. There are, indeed, governments with an essen
tially democratic basis where the executive power is still
able to conclude many important international agree
ments without reference to the legislature; but this is
due to the persistence of special traditions.
in
Usually
democracies there is a final or coordinate authority
which rests with the parliament or legislature. The
negotiations of so-called plenipotentiaries, the engage
ments of foreign offices, the conclusions of conferees,
are thus merely preliminary.
The more important the
agreements, as insuring peace by settling bitter dis
putes, the more certain it is that they will involve
mutual concessions.
Thus in each country it is likely
to be insisted that the other has gained at its expense,
and this gives exceptional opportunity to critics who
assume the most extreme
positions on patriotic grounds.
In the case of the Webster-Ashburton
treaty, Daniel
Webster was accused of taking upon himself to act for
the British envoy and of making twelve
important sac
rifices of the interests of his country, while Lord Palm
erston asserted that the treaty was a capitulation, the
result of the incompetence and weakness of Lord Ash
burton. Since the recent Washington
conference those
who are dissatisfied with the naval treaty in Great
Britain, Japan, and the United States have sought to
make it appear in each of these countries that its par

September-October

ticular interests were sacrificed to the others; of course
these critics can not all be right, and I am happy to
say that the manifest result of their conflicting con
tentions is to put even in a clearer light the essential
fairness of the arrangement.
Aside from honest criticism, modern negotiations be
tween democracies furnished rare opportunities for the
There are to-day serious
ready tongues of demagogues.
between
which
questions
peoples
ought to be taken up
and settled in order to heal
festering sores. But those
in charge of foreign affairs do not dare to undertake to
negotiate agreements because they know that in the
presence of attack inspired by political or partisan
motives
the necessary adjustment
could not receive
approval of the legislative branch and would evoke such
an acrimonious
controversy on both sides that matters
would bo made worse instead of better. The discussion
of international agreements
and properly
naturally
engages the attention of the public press, but that also
not only gives opportunity for reasonable
criticism, but
for the pseudopatriots to sieze a point of
vantage against
the government they desire to attack. Conferences are
often treated as though they provided an actual solution
of all difficulties, but for most countries
they accom
plish nothing unless the conclusions are ratified by a
popular assembly. Democracies may be loath to go to
war, but they are extremely difficult agencies of inter
national compromises in the interest of peace.
In this task of promoting
peaceful settlements diplo
Conferences are simply an ex
macy is indispensable.
tension of its method where a number of States are
No one can fail to realize
parties to the negotiations.
the importance of
having the public deeply interested
and well informed upon policies,
interests, and under
a check upon
takings in order to maintain
improper
aims and a wholesome attitude toward
foreign relations,
but there is a necessary distinction to be observed with
respect to the conduct of negotiations. While intrigues
and secret
understandings, breeding suspicion and lead
ing

to

counter

intrigues

and

secret

arrangements,

are

the appropriate instruments of the
injurious rivalries
and ambitious schemings which make forwar,
premature
publicity is a serious handicap to the honorable negotia
tions which seek to end dangerous
Conces
disputes.
sions will not be made and fair
compromises are ren
dered almost impossible in the presence of the
keen,
efficient,and indefatigable news gatherers who naturally
regard it as a primary obligation to let nothing escape
their ken or their pen. It is inevitable that
fragments
of information should be picked up, that the
pieces of
the puzzle should be
inaccurately joined, and that the
interests of peaceful adjustments should be in constant
danger of being sacrificed to "scoops."
It is suggested that all would be easy if
negotiators
would simply tell the public
everything that they are
doing. But the trouble is that in every negotiation,
as all business men
know, there are preliminary posi
tions to be taken, tentative plans to be discussed, argu
ments to be presented and demolished and
nothing can
be accomplished if every suggestion, every advance and
every retreat must be publicly made.
Negotiators
under such restriction would inevitably take their
posi
tions not to promote a settlement, but to win
public
approval by the firmness and vigor of their partisan

This content downloaded from 128.103.149.52 on Thu, 25 Jun 2015 03:16:36 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

1923 ADVOCATE OF PEACE 341
ship. Eager as democracies may be for peace in the
abstract, it is easy to excite a public clamor for "no
compromise" in the concrete. But the point is not
that the negotiators of democratic governments will be
disposed to conduct their proceedings in public, the
difficulty is that in the midst of their work when
patience and reticence, and an equable public temper
are needed, misleading
statements, misapprehensions
and unfounded rumors are likely to become current
and perhaps also make necessary, in order to avoid
greater difficulties, disclosures which it would be in the
interest of successful prosecution of the. negotiations to
withhold for the time being. Open diplomacy is open
ness of results; the absence of secret agreements and
understandings, not the immediate publication of all
intermediate steps. When we consider the self-imposed
restraints that are necessary in the interest of peace,
is it too much to hope that to a much greater degree
there will be embraced in these, as a matter of public
interest, the self-imposed restraint upon publicity be
fore disclosures in relation to negotiations are properly
If we are to have peace, we must develop
authorized?
a public sentiment which will aid in conserving the
opportunities to work for peace by facilitating the
practical arrangements that make for the adjustments

shall be able at no distant day to keep within reasonable
limits some of our pressing economic rivalries by fair
international agreements in which the self-interest of
rivals will submit to mutual restrictions in the further
ance of friendly accord.
All things are possible if nations are willing to be
just to each other. The fact that in the class ofmatters
now under consideration there may be no
possibility of
arbitrament does not imply that we do not have any
means at hand which are compatible with the recog
nition of sovereign rights. We have not only the possi
bilities of negotiating
international agreements, but
also of advising the legislatures of States as to the
interests of other States affected by national legislation.
A joint commission is a familiar agency which is dis
tinct from that of arbitration for the reason that the
States concerned in their creation have each an equal
representation. In relation to domestic questions which
have an international bearing, it would be quite possi
ble to make more frequent use of this method, not to
decide but to inform, not to arbitrate but to investigate,
to find the facts and to report to the governments of
the States represented the effect of measures and where
injury would lie. We have at this time, under our
treaty of 1909 relating to boundary waters and ques
tions arising along the boundary between Canada and
of peace.
the United States, an International Joint Commission
Perhaps the most troublesome sources of irritation
are to be found in the subjects which States properly with powers of investigation and report within the sc?pe
of the treaty.
decline to regard as international in the legal sense.
While I do not undertake to speak officially upon this
Every State, jealous of its sovereign rights, refuses to
into
its
intrusion
of
the
nations
domestic
other
subject, I may take the liberty of stating as my per
permit
sonal view that we should do much to foster our friendly
concerns. In every plan for the arbitration of inter
relations and to remove sources of misunderstanding
national controversies, domestic questions are perforce
excluded. But in these days of intimate relations, of and possible irritation, if we were to have a permanent
economic stress, and of intense desire to protect national
body of our most distinguished citizens acting as a com
interests and advance national opportunity, the treat mission, with equal representation of both the United
States and Canada, to which automatically there would
ment of questions which from a legal standpoint are
be referred, for examination and report as to the facts,
domestic often seriously affects international relations.
The principle, each nation for itself to the full extent questions arising as to the bearing of action by either
of its power, is the principle of war, not of peace. Let
Government upon the interests of the other, to the end
it be recognized that force is the inevitable resort of that each reasonably protecting its own interests would
be so advised that it would avoid action
unrestrained selfishness; that peace is to be reconciled
inflicting un
with national aims only as an enlightened self-interest necessary injury upon its neighbor. We rejoice in our
long friendship and in permanent peace, and it would
permits the reasonable restraint that is consistent with
a world where we
be a short-sighted view that either of us has any real
the fair opportunity of others,?in
must either fight or "live and let live" in a decent
interest which is to be promoted without regard to the
well-being of the other and the considerate treatment
regard for the welfare of others as well as our own.
But how are we to take proper cognizance of the just which conditions good will.
I am saying this personal
interests of other States in the turmoil of politics and word as much to the people of the United States as
ex
to the people of Canada ; it breathes neither
amid the contests of local ambitions appealing
complanit
clusively to some supposed immediate national interest ? nor criticism, but a keen desire for the co-operation of
the closest friends, each secure in independence and
No State could be asked, or for a moment would con
in the assurance of amity.
sider, submitting its treatment of domestic interests to
I recur to the main point, that the
It will decide
any sort of international arbitrament.
only real progress
to abiding peace is found in the friendly
for itself the questions within its own jurisdiction ; that
disposition
of peoples and that facilities for
is the essence of sovereignty. But the case is not hope
maintaining peace are
useful only to the extent that this
less. What
could be regarded as more essentially a
friendly disposition
exists and finds expression. The means of
matter of its own concern than the provision a State
waging war
in itsmost horrible form are now
should make for its own defense, the arms it should
apparently within the
provide, the number and armament of its battleships ? reach of all and are more easily contrived and con
Yet we have recently seen the great naval powers, obedi
cealed than ever. War is not only possible, but prob
ent at last to the desire to end a ruinous competitive
able, where mistrust and hatred and desire for revenge
are the dominant motives.
Our first duty is at home
struggle in arms, voluntarily agree to reduce their
I believe that we with our own opinion, by education and
fighting ships to agreed proportions.
unceasing effort

This content downloaded from 128.103.149.52 on Thu, 25 Jun 2015 03:16:36 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

ADVOCATE OF PEACE
exhortations of
to bring to naught the mischievous
chauvinists ; our next is to aid in every practicable way
in promoting a better feeling among other peoples, the
healing of wounds, and the just settlement of differ

THE
An

ences.

Our own relations furnish the happiest illustration
and strengthen our faith. It is not that we began in
friendship or had the advantage of a tradition of
brotherly love. Quite the contrary. Our 100 years
and more of peace were preceded by long periods of
bitterness and of savage strife ; the new world received
as an unfortunate heritage the warring ambitions of
the old. It is not that since the close of that era we
have been without serious controversies. The peace of
Ghent left us many questions of difficulty which ap
parently defied amicable settlement. But we now recall
the serious disputes of the nineteenth century with
mutual gratification at the conquests of peace and the
arduous achievements of self-restraint. It is not that
we have been lacking in national pride, in courage, or
martial spirit. The long record of fortitude, of hero
ism, and military ardor and capacity in the Great War
has no more inspiring chapter than that written by
the sons of Canada who with eager swiftness rushed
to the support of the motherland
in the struggle to
maintain the very essentials of liberty, and to the final
success of that struggle the Dominion pledged all her
resources of material and spirtual power.
It was the
privilege of our own people in that war, convinced of
the vital character of the issue, to take our place at
your side, and the friendship which had grown out of
the unlikely soil, sown with the seeds of early differ
ences, came to glorious fruition in the common sacrifices
on the fields of Prance.
It is pleasant to recall that it
was Alexander Hamilton,
the apostle both of national
and
of
international
peace, who first suggested,
strength
in his recommendation
to President Washington
in
1794, the limitation of armament on the Great Lakes,
and our undefended line of 3,500 miles is at once a
memorial
and a prophecy?a
memorial
of the past
a
of
and
reasonableness
triumphs
prophecy that all
future problems will be solved without breach of amity.
The reason for this happy condition points to the
solution the world needs. We have formed the habit
of peace; we think in terms of peace. Differences arise,
but our confidence in each other's sense of justice and
peaceful intent remains unshaken and dominates our
The only pathway of peace is that
purposes and plans.
in which our peoples are walking together. In the
depths of our grief at the loss of the great leader, whose
every thought, whose constant endeavor, were directed
to the establishment of peace, it is a precious memory
that almost his last words were spoken on the soil of
your country testifying to our abiding friendship, our
mutual
interests, our common aims. Let these words
of the late President ever remain as the expression and
assurance of abiding peace: "Our protection is in our
fraternity, our armor is our faith; the tie that binds
more firmly year by year is
ever-increasing acquaintance
and comradeship through interchange of citizens; and
the compact is not of perishable parchment, but of fair
and honorable dealing which, God grant, shall continue
for all time.*'

September-October

DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL

Address

Delivered

Before

OF THE
MIND

the Academy

of International

Law, at The Hague, July 20, 1923
(Translation

By NICHOLAS

from

the French)

MURRAY

BUTLER

1912, at the Lake Mohonk Conference on Interna
In tional Arbitration, I offered a definition of the In
ternational Mind.
Today I propose to return to that
subject and to make some observations from a philo
sophical point of view.
One who accustoms himself to look beneath the sur
face of human history will find constantly at work there
powerful and conflicting emotions and ideas. The hap
penings that one takes note of day by day are the result
of these hidden and sometimes unsuspected
causes.
From the vast reservoir of the world's unconscious men
tal life, there flow those constant streams of tendency
which produce the results that are visible to all men.
Wars and migrations come and go, nations rise and fall,
the center of gravity of human interest moves from one
point to another far removed, and only those are mys
tified who seek the explanation solely on the surface of
things. A deeper and more reflective examination of
all that pertains to human life and conduct will often
give the clue to an understanding of what is taking
place.

From the break-up of the Eoman Empire to the pres
ent day, a period of perhaps fifteen centuries, the most
powerful moving force in the history of the Western
World, although often unconsciously operating, has been
the struggle for nationality, for national organization,
for national independence, and for national expansion.
The integration of separate States into empires, and
then the break-up of these empires themselves, have
been due to this cause. Beligious zeal, economic pres
sure, and the thirst for novelty have been contributing
causes?sometimes
the persistent
powerfully so?but
struggle for nationality has dominated all these.
the eighteenth century the civilized world
During
witnessed with sympathy and regret the suppression of
the nationality of Poland, which had existed for a thou
sand years, and the forcible division of its territory
among the governments of three peoples other than its
own. During
the nineteenth century the world wit
nessed with sympathy, and indeed with enthusiasm, the
steady expansion of the British Empire and the move
ment for the political unity of the Italian and the Ger
man States. Here were believed to be three
powerful
elements in the development of civilization and of en
lightenment, of advance in science, in letters, and in the
arts, in the spread of commerce and of industry, and in
the upholding of sound principles of personal and na
tional conduct to guide the life of men and nations.
Partly for reasons that were psychological, partly for
reasons that were economic, the movement toward na
tionality eventually became one of distinct menace to
the people of the world and to the safety and independ
ence of the smaller nations themselves.
in
Finally,
1914, the crash came, and the principle of nationality
seemed for the moment to have exhausted its good ele

This content downloaded from 128.103.149.52 on Thu, 25 Jun 2015 03:16:36 UTC
All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions

