You have   graciously   permitted   me  to  share  in this tribute to the eminent  jurist  who in this com­munity  laid  the  foundation  of   one  of   the  most distinguished   careers  in  American  annals. I respond to your  invitation  not only with gratification  but  with a keen  sense  of  obligation.  The Justices  of  the  Federal  Supreme  Court  are  not  merely  titular  successors in  important  official duties, but  inheritors  and developers  in  a  continuous  process   of   exposition,   and  thus enter with  a lively consciousness  of  fellowship  into the problems,  the anxieties,  and  the  achievements  of  those who have preceded  them  in their necessary but difficult task as weavers of the fabric of constitutional law.
The life of  Roger Brooke Taney covered the  period in which our institutions were created and solidified.   He was born within the year following the Declaration of Independence, as the fortunes of the Revolution hung in the balance, and he died in the  closing days of the Civil War.  He was admitted to  the Bar in 1799, and his professional activity was  practically coterminous with the judicial service of  John Marshall whom he  succeeded  as  Chief  Justice  in 1836. For over twenty-eight years - a time of  bitterest  contro­versy  ripening  in  tragical   conflict - he presided  over the Supreme Court,  maintaining  in the  face  of  rancorous criticism,  and amid the excesses of passion, a serenity and  dignity, as well as a conscientious devotion to his  task, which won the  highest  praise  from the  ablest  and most discriminating of his associates, whose appreciation of character and talent was not impaired by either political or judicial  disagreement.
Entering upon  professional  practice  in  Frederick in the year  1801. ·Taney could not but be inspired by the traditions  of  the  illustrious  Maryland  Bar.  It was a period favorable to the development of lawyers. Legal education, it is true, was but rudimentary. But there was opportunity to know all that was necessary to meet  the demands  of  the day.   Painstaking  study
was required, and Taney ·tells us that "for weeks together"  he  "read  law  twelve  hours in  the  twenty­ four."    In speaking  of   his   early  efforts   in  special pleading,  he  says:    "Chitty  had  not   made his ap­pearance,  and you  were  obliged  to  look for the rule in Comyn's Digest, or Bacon's  Abridgment, or Viner's Abridgment, and the cases to which they referred; and I  have  sometimes  gone  back  to  Lilly's  Entries  and Doctrina Placitandi-in searching for  a  precedent." Still, it was not difficult for a diligent, capable student to become familiar with all the law that had been  de­clared  here  and  in England, and  also to have  an  ap­propriate  acquaintance  with  Roman  law.    And Taney had what William Wirt called  a  "moonlight mind." The comparative  paucity  of  material in published re­ports of judicial decisions made mastery the easier, and in questions  of substantive  law  principles were more important than precedents. Developing com­munities and  evolving institutions presented problems and interests  worthy of the keenest minds, and it was a golden age  for those  who  were apt in disputation. Questions  were large and populations small, and su­perior  ability shone forth with an opportunity which was more sparingly granted  in  subsequent  days  of  a more crowded rivalry and a higher  average of  attain­ment.    Eloquence  was  the  crown  of   forensic effort and the methods of the courts favored  those who had a talent for oratory. Oral arguments  were expansive. Even at a much later  time,  a  competent observer of the arguments of eminent  lawyers in the highest tribu­nal was able to say that  "one of  the learned counsel occupied an entire day  for the purpose of demonstrating this very difficult  proposition in America, that the people are sovereign ;  and  then pursued  his argument on  the  second  day  by endeavoring to make out the extremely difficult conclusion from the first proposition, that being  sovereign they had a right to frame their own  constitution." From the beginning,  argu­mentation  was broad as well as deep, and successful lawyers  were noted  quite as much  for the display of polemical powers  and ambitious rhetoric as for acute analysis and precise reasoning. It was in this leisurely and congenial atmosphere of  the courts that the  abili­ties of  both statesmen and jurists  were ripened.
The Bar of Maryland enjoyed a distinction second to none. Frederick is honored by the memorial , not only of Taney, but of Thomas Johnson-who had the distinction   of   nominating   Washington   to  be   Commander-in-Chief-the  first Governor of  Maryland and appointed by Washington to be  Associate Justice  of the  Supreme  Court  of  the   United States. In the galaxy of  great  Maryland   lawyers of  the earlier day we find such eminent  names as those of William Paca, Daniel Dulany of   Daniel, Jeremiah Townley Chase, Luther Martin  (in his prime, the acknowledged leader of the Bar) , and  two who were appointed  Associate Justices of the Federal Supreme Court, Robert  Han­son Harrison and Gabriel Duvall. In the  period of Taney's professional  activity, there were in addition to Luther Martin, and aside from Taney  himself, such outstanding Maryland lawyers-to  mention but a few
-as William  Pinkney  (of  whom  Marshall is reported to  have said  "He was  the greatest  man  I  have  ever seen  in  a court  of  justice,"  and  whom  Webster   de­ scribed  as the greatest  of  advocates) ; Robert   Goodloe Harper, William Wirt, William H.  Winder,  Fran­cis   Scott   Key   (Taney's   brother-in-law   and  fellow student,  who wrote the  Star  Spangled  Banner),  and younger, but rising  rapidly, Reverdy Johnson.   It was under the influence  and example of such illustrious inspirers and  associates that Taney practiced law.   After twenty-two   years  in this  community,  he  removed  to Baltimore,   following, in recognized  leadership, in the footsteps  of  Martin  and  Pinkney  until  Wirt  came a few  years  later  to  divide  the  honors.	Political   distinction  now  awaited  Taney.	After   serving  as  At­torney  General  of   Maryland,  he   was  appointed  by President  Jackson,  in  1831,  Attorney  General  of  the United  States, and Secretary  of  the Treasury in 1833. I shall not attempt to review  his brief  political career, the  circumstances  of  the   acrid  controversy  over  the removal of government  deposits from the United States Bank, or the animosities which were aroused, so violent and   implacable  that  they  led  to the  rejection  by  the Senate  of   Taney's  nomination   as  Secretary  of   the Treasury and later of his nomination  (although it met with  Marshall's  favor)   as  Associate  Justice  of   the Supreme  Court  of  the United  States.   Thus  rejected in  1835,  within  little  more  than  a  year,  as  a  result of  changes  in  the  Senate  but  after  a  long  struggle, he was confirmed by the Senate as Chief  Justice and his  judicial  career with  its momentous  consequences began.			.
There were no  sufficient  grounds  for  the  attack upon  Taney's  qualifications.	Henry  Clay,  who  with Webster  determinedly  opposed  Taney's  confirmation, later  magnanimously  admitted  his  error, and  with  a depth  of  feeling that  did  him  credit,  told  the  Chief Justice  himself: "Mr. Chief  Justice,  you  know  that, in  my  place  in  the  Senate,  before  your  nomination to the office you now fill was submitted to that body, as well as during its consideration, I said many harsh things of you.  . . . But I now know you better.  . . . I am now convinced  that a better  appointment  could not  have  bee made."	Clay came to feel, as he said, that  the  ermine  so long worn  and  honored  by  Mar­shall  had  fallen  upon  a  most  worthy   successor.	It would  have  been  a  difficult  undertaking,   in the  best circumstances, to succeed the great Chief   Justice, but the acrimony of  partisan criticism made  Taney's task one which required an exceptional  equipment of cour­age, firmness, and  judicial   equanimity.	Apart  from mere partisan bias,  there was, indeed, a strong feeling among  his   opponents  that  under  the  new  leadership of  the  court  the  principle  of  constitutional  construction,   which  the  genius  of  Marshall  had  established against vehement  and continuous  assaults  most  ably directed, would. be undermined  and that the essential authority  of  the  Nation  would  be  placed  in  serious jeopardy.	But Taney had been a Federalist  and while his  judicial   work  came to be  distinguish for  his support, with the force of profound  conviction,  of the power of the States "over their own internal police and improvement"-a power the exertion of which was especially  demanded   by  economic  changes still   he recognized in many notable  opinions  the  importance of maintaining national authority and its supremacy within its constitutional domain.
Thus,  in  the  case  of  Holmes  v.  Jennison,  Chief
Justice   Taney,   dealing  with   the   question   of   extradi­tion,   emphasized   the   exclusive  power   of   the   United
States in foreign relations. "It was one of the main objects of the Constitution,"  said  he,  "to  make  us, so far  as  regarded  our  foreign  relations,  one people,
and one nation; and to cut off all communications  be­tween   foreign   governments,   and  the  several  state authorities.	The  power  now  claimed  for  the  states is  utterly  incompatible  with  this  evident   intention; an would  expose us to one of  those  dangers against which  the  framers  of  the  Constitution  have  so anxiously endeavored  to  guard."   In Martin v. Waddell's Lessee, the  Chief   Justice  in  determining  the  extent of  the authority of  New Jersey over lands under tide­ waters held  that  the rulings  of  the  State Court  upon the  construction  of  early instruments,  not  framed by the people of  New Jersey, but were royal charters un­der  which   rights  were  claimed  by  the  State  on  the one  hand   and   private   individuals   on  the   other although  the  decision  of  the  State  Court  was  entitled to great  weight-did   not   bind   the  federal  tribunal. Taney concurred in the ruling in Dobbins v. Erie Count' that  a  State had  no power  to tax the  com­pensation fixed by federal law of a federal internal revenue officer. While as his biographer, Dr. Steiner of this  State,  has  observed,  "Taney  never  got  over the  feeling that the commerce clause should be  some­what narrowly construed," it should not be overlooked that the Chief Justice took part in the decision in Cooley v. Port Wardens, which, after the uncertainty caused by the diverse opinions delivered in the License Cases  and  the  Passenger   Cases,  established  a  prin­ciple which has been of the greatest value in  solving the  difficult  problems  constantly  recurring  in  the  effort
to  maintain  in  relation  to  the  highly  important  subject of   commerce  the  constitutional  balance  between   state and  national  authority.	Said  the  Court,  in  the  Cooley case,   speaking  through   Mr.   Justice   Curtis,   with   the concurrence  of   the  Chief   Justice:	"Now  the   power to regulate commerce,  embraces  a vast  field   contain­ing not only  many, but   exceedingly   various  subjects, quite unlike  in their nature;   some   imperatively   de­manding  a  single  uniform   rule,  operating  equally  on the   commerce   of   the  United   States  in   every   port; and some, like the  subject  now  in  question   (pilotage), as  imperatively,   demanding   that  diversity  which  alone came  the local necessities   of   navigation. And this  consideration  of  a question  pertaining  to naviga­tion   led  to  the  announcement   of   the  more   compre­hensive  doctrine  that  has  since prevailed :   "Whatever subjects  of   this  power  are  in  their  nature  national   or admit  only  of  one uniform  system,  or  plan  of  regulation,  may  justly  be  said  to be  of   such  a  nature  as  to require   exclusive   legislation   by   Congress."	It  may also  be  recalled  that  one  of the  early  appearances  of Taney  as  counsel   before   the   Supreme   Court   of   the United   States was in  the case of  Brown  v. Maryland, in  1827,  the   "original  package"  case,  where the  Court rejecting  Taney's  contention,   decided   that  the  Maryland   statute  imposing  a   license   tax   upon   importers
was  unconstitutional  as a tax  on  imports  and  an  in­terference with foreign commerce.  Thirty-four  years later, in deciding Almy  v.  California, which   held  a state stamp tax on bills of lading of  commodities transported from the State to be  unconstitutional as a tax on exports, Chief Justice  Taney followed the decision in Brown v. Maryland, in opposition to the position he had taken  as  counsel,   and  commented  upon  Chief Justice Marshall's  opinion as showing that the former case had been  "carefully and  fully considered  by the Court."
With respect  to the admiralty jurisdiction,  Chief Justice  Taney  was  even  more  "national"  than   Mar­ shall  himself,  and  the  decision  of  the  Court   in  the case of  the Genesee Chief departing from  the views of  Marshall  and  Story,  recorded  an  advance  which has  been  called  revolutionary  in  the   conception  of Federal  power.	The  Court  decided,  in   a  powerful opinion  of  the  Chief  Justice, that  the  jurisdiction  of the  admiralty  courts  of  the  United   States  extended over  navigable  waters,  although not  tidewaters  (thus embracing, for example, the Great  Lakes), when com­merce is carried  on between  different  States or  with a  foreign  nation. "Now,"  said  Chief  Justice  Taney, "there is certainly nothing in  the ebb and flow of  the tide that makes the waters  peculiarly  suitable for ad­miralty  jurisdiction,  nor  anything in the absence of  a tide that  renders  it  unfit.	If it is a public navigable water, on  which commerce is carried on between dif­ferent  States or nations,  the reason  for  the  jurisdiction  is  precisely  the  same.		And  if  a  distinction  is made on that account, it is merely  arbitrary,  without any  foundation  in  reason."	In this  substitution  of sound reasoning based upon essential national interests, in place of an ultra conservative adherence to the  pre­cedents  of   English  law  established  under   different conditions, Taney was at his best.

It  is unfortunate  that the  estimate  of  Chief   Jus­tice Taney's judicial labors should have been so largely influenced by the opinion which  he delivered   in  the case of  Dred  Scott.  It would be  futile at  the pres­ent time to re-examine the circumstances  and consequences of that historic controversy. It should be said, however, that  the charge, which   formed  part  of  the violent  and  malignant  attack  upon the decision, that it was the result of  a  conspiracy or political bargain had not the slightest  foundation.  Whatever  may  be said of  the merits of  the case, or of  the scope of  the Court's  determination,  or of  the reasoning  employed, there  can be no doubt of the integrity of the members of  the Court and of the sincerity of the action of the Chief Justice, who thought he was rendering a national service.  In looking at the background of the decision, it is apparent that there was  a  fundamental  error  in the supposition that the imperious question which  un­derlay the controversy could be put at rest by a judicial pronouncement. That issue was beyond the  resources of the forum  or  of  the  legislature-it  was  an  issue definitely  settled  by  the  arbitrament  of   war.  With that  settlement,  the Dred  Scott  case  passed into his­tory as an event pregnant with  political consequences of the highest importance, and  having a most serious effect upon the prestige of the  Court, chiefly because of the unbridled criticism  induced by the temper of the times, but having a  negligible influence upon the development of the constitutional jurisprudence with which we are now concerned.
At this time, in calm retrospect,  rejoicing  in national  unity  and  in  the  collaboration  of  a  peaceful people, we may make a juster  appraisement than was possible  in the passionate  days of  civil  strife.    Noth­ing could be more unjust than to estimate the  judicial work of the days of Taney by a  disproportionate em­phasis upon the decisions which were called forth by the vexed questions growing out of the institution of slavery and the prospect of its extension. Rather I should like to take this opportunity to recognize the important service of Chief Justice Taney in setting forth principles that are guiding stars in constitutional interpretation, to some of which I have already alluded.
At once, upon taking office, the Chief Justice was confronted by the long standing controversy over the Warren Bridge between Boston and Charlestown, Massachusetts, presenting the question whether the contract contained in a corporate charter providing for a toll  bridge  was  impaired  by  a later  grant  to  an­other corporation of the right to build a parallel  bridge. The case was argued by the most distinguished  counsel and aroused the keenest interest.  Against  strong dissent the new Chief Justice sustained the  statute under review,  laying  down  the  principle   that, in the ab­sence of  express  provision,  a grant  by the State of exclusive privileges was not to be   inferred. While vigorously attacked at the time, the  soundness of this principle, and its importance to a  developing country, have been generally recognized.    The forward look of Taney may be noted  in his  words describing the con­sequences of a different  decision : "We shall be thrown back to the   improvements of the  last  century,  and obliged to  stand still, until the claims of the old turn­pike corporations shall be satisfied ; and they shall con­sent to permit these states to avail themselves of the lights of  modern  science, and to partake  of  those  improvements which are now adding to the wealth  and prosperity, arid the convenience and comfort, of  every part of the  civilized  world.  Nor  is  this  all.    The Court will find itself compelled to fix, by some  arbi­trary rule, the width  of this new kind of  property in a line of travel; for if such a right of  property exists, we have no lights to guide us in  marking  out  its extent."
This freedom of development was again aided by the opinion delivered by the Chief Justice in Bank of Augusta v. Earle, holding that, in the absence of legislation to the contrary, the consent of a State upon the principle of comity would be presumed to the making of contracts within its borders by a corporation of another State. To Justice  Story, who  had vigorously dissented in the Warren Bridge case,  Taney's opinion in  the  case  of  the  Bank   of   Augusta gave no little gratification which he  emphasized in  a  letter  to the Chief  Justice, saying that the opinion did "great honor to yourself, as well  as to the Court." To those who found it difficult to  understand  the effort of  the Jus­tices of  the Court  to deal with each case in an objective spirit, and to  declare the law conscientiously and with judicial   independence, the decision gave "consolatory  reflection"  that  "the fears of  judicial  radical­ism   had  not  been  realized."    Indeed,  the  apprehen­sion that the constitutional protection against the impairment of contracts had been seriously weakened by the decision in  the  Warren Bridge  case  was  proved to be unfounded by the opinion of Chief Justice Taney in Bronson  v. Kinzie.  That decision  held  invalid  a state statute which was representative of a popular class of legislation endeavoring to succor debtors in a period of extreme economic depression by changing the rights of mortgagees.   The views of the Chief Justice on the importance of  the reserved  powers  of  the State were not open to question, but with notable courage he also maintained   against  much   clamor  the  constitutional safeguard against impairment of the obligation of  con­tracts, observing in his opinion that the purpose  of the constitutional  provision  was  not  "to  protect  a  mere barren and abstract right, without any practical  opera­tion of  the business  of  life"; that it was "to  maintain the integrity of  contracts, and to secure their faithful execution throughout this Union, by placing  them un­der  the protection  of  the Constitution  of   the  United States."	This  decision,  however,  evoked   opposition so intense, that it was now a Senator from  Illinois who proposed an amendment to the Constitution  prohibiting the Supreme Court from declaring void any Act of Con­gress or any State regulation on the  ground that it was contrary to the Constitution of the United States. Later, in  1848, when  the  Court  in   West  River  Bridge  Co. v. Dix sustained the state power of eminent domain, which had been exercised with respect to a toll bridge, it was recognized that the Court's views as to the maintenance of contracts did not lead to the denial of state power appropriately exercised. A few years thereafter, in Ohio Life Insurance and  Trust Company v. Debolt, Chief Justice Taney strongly upheld the principle that corporate privileges, that case being one of tax exemption, were not to be regarded as conferred by implication. His point of view with respect to corporate charters was emphasized in words frequently quoted: "For it is a matter of public history,  which this Court cannot refuse to notice, that almost  every bill for the incorporation of banking companies,  insurance  and  trust  companies,  railroad   companies,  and other  corporations,  is  drawn  originally  by  the  parties who  are  personally   interested in obtaining  the  char­ter; and  that  they  are often passed by the legislature in the last days of its session, when,  from the nature of  our political  institutions, the business is unavoidably transacted  in  a hurried manner, and it is impossible that every  member can deliberately examine every pro­vision in  every bill upon which he is called to act.   On the other hand, those who accept the charter  have abundant time to examine and consider its provisions, before  they  invest  their  money.  And  if  they  mean to claim  under  it any  peculiar  privileges,  or any  ex­emption from the burden of taxation, it is their  duty to  see  that  the  right   or  exemption  they   intend to claim is granted in clear and unambiguous  language." Where the grant of a particular privilege or  exemption was, as he thought in the Piqua  Bank  case, "too plain to admit of any other construction,"  he sustained it.  Thus  did  Chief  Justice  Taney  seek  to maintain the constitutional balance.
In   another   field,   the   opinion   delivered   by   the
Chief Justice for the Court established the important doctrine that the Court will not undertake to decide political questions and that controversies under the constitutional  guaranty  of  a republican  form  of   gov­ernment  are  for  the  consideration  and  action  of  the
Congress.    It  is true that  Taney  sought  to carry the
application  of  the principle  too  far when  in the earlier part of his service he opposed the view that the Court had jurisdiction of a boundary dispute between States, a  jurisdiction  which  has  since  been  frequently   exer­cised to great public advantage. But in the  contest arising out of the Dorr rebellion in Rhode  Island, the principle that the Chief Justice held so tenaciously was applied  in  dramatic  circumstances.    That  was  a  case
full of  opportunities for the emergence of the political views supposed to be entertained  by the majority  of the members of the Court, but the decision disregarded the wishes  of  party and recorded  the triumph  of  dis­passionate  judicial  deliberation.   It  was  a  contest  in which  the  fundamental  principles  of   popular govern­ment were thought to be involved,  and intense feeling had been aroused among its  champions.  On the other side were the sturdy opponents of Loco-Focoism. But, said Chief Justice  Taney, the question of the legitimacy of the government  in the State was a political one upon which the Court   had no authority to pass.  "For," said he, "as the  United States guarantee to each State a republican   government, Congress must necessarily decide what   government   is  established  in  the  State before  it  can determine whether it is republican or not. And  when the senators and representatives of a State are  admitted into the councils of the Union, the authority  of the government under which they are ap­pointed,   as well  as its republican  character, is recog­nized  by the proper constitutional  authority.  And  its decision is binding on every other department of the government, and could not be questioned in a judicial tribunal. It is true  that  the  contest  in  this  case  did not last long enough to bring the matter to this issue ;
. . . Yet the right to decide is placed  there, and not in  the  courts."    Thus  the  Court  maintained  the  surest safeguard of its appropriate jurisdiction by  refus­ing to become entangled in political  controversies with which it had no concern. This  salutary  doctrine  was recently  applied  by  the  Court  in an opinion by Chief Justice White in the Oregon  case, where the Court refused to deal with  a  controversy arising out of the adoption  in  that  State  of  the initiative and  referen­dum.
Chief Justice Taney had deep-seated convictions as to the constitutional right of personal liberty, and even in the stress of  civil war, and at the risk of  vio­lent abuse, to which, indeed, he was subjected by  those whose excess of patriotism outran their   intelligence, he maintained that right against the   Executive, de­ciding (when sitting in the Circuit   Court in 1861) that the suspension of the writ of  habeas corpus had
been beyond the powers of  the President.   The Chief
Justice  was  then  eighty-four  years  of  age.    He  had
suffered  during  the  years  following  the  Dred  Scott
case the gravest assaults upon  his judicial  action and
personal character, but, while frail in body and deeply
grieved, he was still fearless in spirit, vigorous in mind, and unshaken in will. He was ever ready without hesitation to do his  duty  as he  saw  it.  It was  after his death that the principles which he had  set  forth were vindicated by the pronouncement by the Supreme Court  in  the  Milligan  case which  buttressed   indi­vidual rights with the memorable declaration: "The Constitution of the United States is a law for rulers and people, equally in war and in peace, and covers with the shield of its protection all classes of men, at all times,  and  under  all circumstances.  .  .  .  Martial
rule can never exist where the courts are open, and in the proper and unobstructed exercise of their  juris­diction. It is also confined to the locality of   actual war."
The crown  of  the judicial  career  of  Chief  Justice
Taney is found, I believe,  in the  opinion  he  delivered for the Supreme Court in Ableman v. Booth, in 1859. The case grew out of  the  violation  of  the  fugitive slave  law,  but  the  permanent   importance  of   the  de­cision lay in its  relation   to  the  maintenance  of   the
authority  of  the  federal  judiciary.    Booth,  convicted
in the federal court for violation of the federal law, had been released on writ of habeas corpus by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin which pronounced the federal law invalid. The hostility to the Supreme Court of the United States, and deliberate and open antagonism to its authority, which had been proclaimed in earlier days in the South, and had found expression in Ohio and California, were now voiced in Wisconsin and elsewhere under the stress of  anti-slavery   sentiment. In most forcible language and with  luminous reasoning, Chief Justice Taney's opinion set  forth the essential supremacy of the federal tribunal  within its sphere under the Constitution and laws of  the United States. "The Constitution," said he, "was not formed merely to guard the States against danger  from foreign nations, but mainly to secure union and  harmony at home ; . . . and that, in the sphere of  action assigned to it" (the General Government), "it  should be su­preme, and strong enough to execute  its own laws by its own tribunals, without   interruption from a State or from State authorities.     And it was evident that anything short of this  would be inadequate to the main objects for which the  Government was established, and that local interests,  local passions or prejudices, incited and fostered by  individuals for sinister purposes, would lead to acts of   aggression and injustice by one State upon  the  rights of another, which would ultimately terminate   in violence and force, unless there was a common   arbiter  between  them,  armed  with  power enough   to protect and guard the rights  of  all,  by appropriate laws, to be carried  into execution  peace­ fully by its judicial tribunals." Maintaining  this postulate of the Constitution, he found in it  nothing in derogation of the dignity of sovereign   States which had entered the compact of the Union;  on the con­trary, he said, "the highest honor of  sovereignty is un­tarnished faith." In this eloquent  and uncompromising utterance, upholding the  authority of the Court at a time of extreme passion  and agitation, Chief Justice Taney discharged   unflinchingly the supreme duty of his office.
In this hour of tribute by those who prize the happy  traditions  of  this  community,  I  can  do  no  better  than  to  recall  the  appraisal  of  an  associate  of the Chief  Justice  who  in  the  peculiar  intimacy  of   the  la­bors  of  the  Court  knew  the  quality  of   Taney's work better than others, whether friends  or  critics.   I quote, not  the  words  of  a  political   supporter,  but  the  estimate   of   Justice   Benjamin   R.  Curtis  of   Massachu­setts,  one  of   the  ablest   men who has sat upon the Bench, and one who had  strongly dissented  from  the decision of  the Chief  Justice  in the case of  Dred  Scott. Said  Justice   Curtis   in  his  remarks  on  the  death  of Taney:   "When  I  first  knew  him,  he  was  master  of
all that peculiar jurisprudence which it is the special province  of  the  courts  of   the  United  States  to  ad­ minister  and  apply.   His  skill  in  applying  it  was of the highest  order.  His  power  of  subtle  analysis  ex­ceeded  that  of  any  man  I  ever  knew;   a power not without its dangers to a judge as well as  to a lawyer; but in this case, it was balanced and  checked by ex­cellent common sense and by great  experience in prac­tical business, both public and  private. .  .  .  For  it is certainly  true,  and  I  am   happy  to  be  able  to  bear direct  testimony  to  it,  that  the  surpassing  ability  of the chief  justice,  and  all  his  great  qualities  of  character  and  mind,  were more fully and constantly exhibited in the  consultation room, while presiding over and assisting  the deliberation of his brethren, than the public knew,   or  can  ever  justly  appreciate.    There, his dignity,  his love of order, his gentleness, his caution, his   accuracy, his discrimination were of incal­culable  importance.   The real intrinsic character of the tribunal was greatly influenced by  them,  and  always for the better. . . . He was as absolutely  free  from the slightest trace of vanity and self-conceit  as  any man  I ever  knew .... The preservation  of  the  har­mony of the members of the court, and of their  good will to himself, was always in his mind."
With the passing of the years, and the softening of old asperities, the arduous  service nobly  rendered by Roger Brooke Taney has received its fitting  recog­nition.   He bore his wounds with the  fortitude  of  an invincible spirit.   He was  a great  Chief Justice.


